== Biography ==

It is estimated that Mary was born about 1765<ref>The estimate is based on Daniel Lip's will, the order of the named siblings as the birth order, and a rough estimate of their birth years.</ref>.

The Last Will and Testament of Daniel Lip 24 Oct 1795<ref>Order Books, 1793-1892; Author: Virginia. County Court (Madison County); Probate Place: Madison, Virginia, Will Book 1, page 157</ref>:
* Daniel has no heirs, and the devisees in his will include his mother, Elizabeth, and siblings in this order:  Henry, Mary, Jacob, and Elizabeth Good.  From the 1782 Personal Property tax list for Culpeper County, it appears that Daniel is the oldest of the siblings, and the sibling names are possibly in birth order.
* Regarding Mary Lip:  "I give to my sister Mary Lip at the death of my Mother one fourth part of all my estate both Real and personal to her and to her heirs forever, but if my Sister Mary Lip Should depart this life without lawful heir I give that said fourth part of my Estate at her death to be equally divided between my brothers and Sisters namely Henry Lip, Jacob Lip and Elizabeth Goode to them and all their heirs forever."
* The will was certified 28 Dec 1795, and Mary Lip married [[Rothgeb-117|Peter Rothgeb)]] the next day.
* The will was "fully proved" and recorded 25 Jan 1798.

[[Rothgeb-117|Peter Rothgeb (abt.1739-1824)]] married Mary Lip 28 Dec 1795<ref>Marriage Bonds & Consents, 1793-1798, Library of Virginia County Records microfilm, Madison County, Reel 67</ref> (see note<ref>It is widely held that Mary Lip married Peter Roadcap ''Jr.'', b 1762 d 1839, but analysis of tax lists and deeds supports Peter Roadcap Jr. b. about 1797 and son of [[Rothgeb-117|Peter Rothgeb (abt.1739-1824)]] and Mary Lip.</ref>).
* Mary provided her own consent:  "This is to Certify That I am Willing to marry Peter Roadcap  Please to Issue Licence  Given under my Hand This 28th Day of December 1795"
* The marriage bond does not provide her father's name.
* Bond signed 28 Dec 1795 by Peter Roadcap (His Mark), and Daniel Good
** Casper and Daniel Good are listed in the 1795 Madison County Personal Property Tax list<ref>https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS3L-73TJ-G?i=75&cat=1131688</ref>.  There is a 1783<ref>Deed Book C page 537, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSKK-61B8?i=285&cat=385833</ref>deed transferring 30 acres of land from Caspar Good and his wife Catharina to George Roadcap his heirs and assigns, showing a relationship between the two families.
** There is a marriage record in Culpeper County Virginia<ref>"Culpeper, Virginia, United States records," images, FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3QS7-L9XF-KSTH?view=explore : May 4, 2024), image 50 of 121.</ref> showing a 23 Feb 1791 marriage between Daniel Good and Elizabeth Lip.  


== Sources ==
* https://www.familysearch.org/tree/person/details/M4FP-Q8W

* "Virginia Marriages, 1785-1940," database, FamilySearch (https://familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:XRD9-PHL : 11 February 2018), Peter Roadcap and Mary Lip, 28 Dec 1795; citing Madison, Virginia, reference p247; FHL microfilm 32,595.

* Short Notes on GERMANNA History, John Blankenbaker, Note #1725, https://homepages.rootsweb.com/~george/johnsgermnotes/germhs69.html

<references />