=== Ancestry Wiki ===
This repository is for sharing Ancestry information with an emphasis on contemporary/primary source material, in an effort to provide as much factual information as is available and accessible for greater accuracy in family trees.

Process:
# Gather documents contemporary to the person being researched:  Marriage records, deeds, wills, tax records, etc.
# Arrange a timeline of facts based on the documents.
# Provide a biography with "just enough" narrative language to connect the documented facts.
# Clearly identify any information that is an estimate or guess or "possibility", and explain the reasoning or calculation.
# Clearly identify any information from a Family Tree that has no references.  Use such information only when the search for reference documents is exhausted,
# Use reference documents to correct common misconceptions in Family Trees.
# Any conclusions should follow the rule of "fewest assumptions".

Current Rothgeb/Rodecap/Roadcap research:
* [[Profiles/Rothgeb/Radtgab-6.wikitext|Hans Jacob Radtgab]] b. 1708 d. 1753
** [[Profiles/Rothgeb/Rothgeb-117.wikitext|Peter Roadcap Sr]] b. 1739? d. 1824
*** [[Profiles/Rothgeb/Lipp-177.wikitext|Mary Lip/Lipp]] m. Peter Roadcap Sr 28 Dec 1795
*** [[Profiles/Rothgeb/Rothgeb-184.wikitext|Peter Roadcap Jr]] b. Abt 1797 d. 1869
** [[Profiles/Rothgeb/Rothgeb-69.wikitext|John George Rothgeb/Roadcap]] b. Abt 1741 d. 1823

* [[Profiles/Rothgeb/Hollobaugh-G.wikitext|George Hollobaugh]] b. Abt 1720 d. 1791 (Stepfather to Hans Jacob's orphans)

Current Koontz research:
* [[Profiles/Koontz/Koontz-229.wikitext|Peter Koontz Sr (abt.1738-1835)]]
** [[Profiles/Koontz/Koontz-1153.wikitext|Peter Koontz Jr (abt.1764-1844)]]
* [[Profiles/Koontz/Kunz-676.wikitext|Philip Koontz Sr (abt. 1745 or 1752-1843)]]

Current Cline research:
* [[Profiles/Cline/Cline-7891.wikitext|John Cline]] b. Abt 1740 d. Abt 1800
** [[Profiles/Cline/Cline-6479.wikitext|Conrad Cline]] b. Abt 1765 d. Abt 1835
*** [[Profiles/Cline/Cline-7885.wikitext|John B. Cline]] b. 1785-1788 d. Abt 1837
*** [[Profiles/Cline/Cline-7903.wikitext|Mary Ann Cline]] b. Abt 1788 m. 29 Sep 1809 [[Profiles/Cline/Nair-William.wikitext|William Nair]] b. 28 Feb 1781 d. 20 Apr 1866
*** [[Profiles/Cline/Cline-6480.wikitext|Peter Cline]] b. 29 Sep 1798 d. 8 Jul 1857
** [[Profiles/Cline/Cline-7892.wikitext|Adam Cline]] b. Abt 1771 or earlier
