== Biography ==

=== Vital Facts ===
* Name:  Hans (aka Johann) Jacob Radtgab (aka Radtgäb, Rodecap, Rotcap or Radtgaeb)
* Birth:  1708
* Parents:  Jacob
* Spouse (1):  Barbara Haller<ref>A history of the Goshenhoppen Reformed charge, Montgomery County, Pennsylvania (1727-1819), William John Hinke, Lancaster [Press of the New era printing company], 1920, p 101, https://archive.org/details/historyofgoshen00hink/page/100/mode/2up</ref>
* Spouse (2):  Anna Naef
* Residence: Switzerland, Phildelphia, Virginia
* Death:  After 19 Dec 1752 (will signed)<ref>Augusta County, Will books, v. 1 1745-1753, film 30314, Will Book 1, page 497</ref>; Before 16 May 1753 (will read in court)<ref>Will Book 1, page 497</ref> &#91;Note:  Britain and the British Empire (including the eastern part of what is now the United States) adopted the Gregorian calendar in 1752.  It's unclear if the will and  probate dates are Julian or Gregorian.&#93;

=== Migration from Switzerland to Philadelphia ===

In ''A history of the Goshenhoppen Reformed charge''<ref>A history of the Goshenhoppen Reformed charge, Montgomery County, Pennsylvania (1727-1819), William John Hinke, Lancaster [Press of the New era printing company], 1920, https://archive.org/details/historyofgoshen00hink, pp. 97ff</ref>  John Henke describes the departure from Zurich, based on an 7 Oct 1734 article in ''Nachrichten von Zurich'', a local newspaper.  The article tells of three boats that left Zurich for "the so called Carolina island".

Carolina contained two successful colonies of Swiss emigrants<ref>Lists of Swiss emigrants in the eighteenth century to the American colonies, Albert Bernhardt Faust, v.1, Zurich, 1734-1744, from the Archives of Switzerland, National Genealogical Society, Gaius M. Brumbaugh, Managing Editor, Washington D. C., 1920, p. 1</ref>.

:The central authorities, in the year 1744, sent a circular letter to all the districts of Zürich, which in turn sent the message to all the parishes, demanding to know the names, with dates of birth, departure etc. , of every man, woman and child who had left the country between 1734 and 1744 with the purpose of going to Pennsylvania or Carolina. The persons who executed the order were the local preachers , whose signatures appear in the manuscript attesting the accuracy of their reports. Each report is numbered, and there are as many as ninetyeight numbers or reports in the manuscript<ref>Faust, op cit, p v</ref>.

The list from Wallissellen<ref>Faust, op cit, p 92-93</ref> ("No. 88. List of Persons from the Parish Wallissellen, Who Since th Year 1734 Left for Carolina") contains some names pertinent to Hans Jacob Rathgeb:
* Anna Näff, baptized 23 Jun 1715, daughter of Konrad Näff and Ana Barb. Däppeler
* Anna Näff, baptized 28 Jul 1720, daughter of Jacob Näff and Lisabeth Kuhn
* Jacob Näff, "above Conrad Näff's son", baptized 1 Dec 1710, and wife Elsbeth Haller, baptized 24 May 1711
* Barbara Haller ["unmarried"], daugher of Hans Geörg, baptized 7 Oct 1708
* Hans Jacob Rathgeb ["unmarried"], "son of Jacob deceased", baptized 29 Jul 1708.

The list from Wangen<ref>Faust, op cit, p 96</ref> ("No. 92. From Wangen There Went to Carolina the Following Two Boys"):
# Caspar Gut, baptized November 14, 1713. Went there after the death of both his parents, anno 1734.
# Felix Hürrlimann, baptized November 26, 1719. Also betook himself thither after the death of his parents, anno 1743.
:Both had no more means to take along than about 10 pounds, and could in no way be got away from their purpose. It happened with the knowledge of the authorities. 
::March 31, 1744.  Felix Weyss, Pastor

The first departure was led by Maurice Goetschy, with his wife and children, and a "considerable number of country people, old and young".

:Shortly afterwards another boat followed him with like, we must say, silly people, making a total of 174 persons for that day.  Many thousands saw them depart with great pity for them, especially because they were undertaking so thoughtlessly, with wife and child, and but poorly provided for, the dangerous journey of 300 hours in cold, rain and wind, now, when the days are getting shorter.  Nevertheless, kindhearted and distinguished persons supplied them with bread, shawls, caps, etc.  The following day the third boat started off.  These were liberally provided, from the office of charities, with a large amount of bread, flour, stockings and other supplies.  Especially the neighborhood of the exchange showed itself deeply sympathetic; nor will they likely to forget what was given to them at Salthouse for bodily refreshment.  In like manner many merchants assisted them.  Upon the last boat were 82 persons, who would have been worthy of more consideration if they had been compelled to leave for the honor of the truth of God.  They must bear the consequences of their act, be they good or ill.

Henke continues with an account of the voyage, based on a pamphlet<ref>The title page of this pamphlet reads: ''Der Hinckende Bott von Carolina oder Ludwig Webers von Walliselen Beschreibung seiner Reise von Zurich gen Rotterdam, mit derjenigen Gesellschaft welch neulich aus dem Schweizerland nach Carolinam zu ziehen gedachte'', Zurich, MDCCXXXV, pp. 32. Only known copy in the city library at Zurich.</ref> written and published at Zurich in 1735 "as a warning to later venturesome spirits."

The pamphlet describes the emigrants' reliance on charity whenever more money was needed.  For example, securing a passport at Basle cost 44 guilders, "which some gentlement at Basle paid for them", and "They were fortunate enough to secure alms at several places along the route and, although they had many quarrels and
difficulties, they finally reached Rotterdam eight days after the main party."

:When they reached Neuwied four couples were married by a Reformed minister:
:# Hans Conrad Wirtz and Anna Goetschy.
:# Conrad Naff, of Walliselen and Anna N.---
:# Jacob Rathgeb and Barbara Haller, both of Walliselen.
:# Conrad Geweiller, a gardener.

Ultimately, Maurice Goetschy "received...assurance of his appointment as minister to Pennsylvania, he returned to Rotterdam and acquainted his party of emigrants with his changed plans.  Most of them readily accepted his proposal to change their destination from Carolina to Pennsylvania."

Meanwhile,
:Zürich ...issu[ed] a decree, November 3 , 1734, forbidding her people to travel to Carolina, preventing the sale of property by those wishing to emigrate, proclaiming punishment of agents enticing people to emigrate or distributing seductive literature. This was followed after a few months by the decree of January 29, 1735 , which repeated the previous commands, and added sterner measures, deprivation of citizenship and land- rights forever, punishment also of the purchasers of property sold by emigrants, close watch over and severe punishment of persons enticing others to leave. The decrees were read from all the pulpits in town and country, they were posted in public places, yet Zürich, as the records show, found it necessary to let large numbers depart.<ref></ref>

In ''Brumbach family genealogy''<ref>Genealogy of the Brumbach families, Gaius Marcus Brumbach, Frederick H Hitchcock Genealogical Publisher, New York, 1913, p 273</ref>, Gaius Marcus Brumbach identifies Jacob as a "Redemptioner", a colonial emigrant from Europe to America who paid for the voyage by serving for a specified period as a bondservant.

In ''A History of Shenandoah County Virginia''<ref>A History of Shenandoah County Virginia, John W. Wayland, Shenandoah Publishing House, Strasburg, Virginia, 1927, page 636</ref> John Wayland states:

:There is a Roadcap genealogy in the large "Genealogy of the Brumbach Families".  There are some errors in this Roadcap or Rothgeb record, which are reprinted in Stricklers "Forerunners".  The stirps, John Jacob Rothgeb, died about 1752, owner of 400 acres in the Page area, was not a redemptioner.

Wayland did not provide a source or basis for this statement, so independent verification is not possible.

From the Martin Rothgeb home survey report, 4 Jan 1938<ref>Martin Rothgeb home : survey report, 1938 Jan. 4, Vivian Black, Library of Virginia, https://image.lva.virginia.gov/VHI/html/20/0690.html</ref>:
:I was told by Casper Rothgeb, age 75 [1938], the only Rothgeb still on this tract, that his grandfather often told him that while Jacob still worked for Strickler, he would walk up Mill Creek nearly every Sunday, and as soon as his time for Strickler had expired, he received his Grant from Lord Fairfax.  This grant is now in the possession of George Rothgeb [6th generation], Luray, Virginia.

The statement "as soon as his time for Strickler had expired, he received his Grant from Lord Fairfax" supports the possibility (but does not prove) that there was an indenture for land, that Jacob and Barbara were indentured for a period.

=== Marriage ===
<u>(1) Barbara Haller m. 1734 and m. Abt. 1740</u>

As noted in the migration section, Jacob married Barbara Haller at Neuwied in 1734, on their way from Zurich to Philadelphia.  Considering the piety of the travelers, it is possible that this was needed to allow single men and women to travel together.  After arriving in Philadelphia, the terms of an indenture would normally include a prohibition of matrimony.  After the term of indenture expired, they may have needed to marry again in Virginia for social and/or legal reasons.

In ''Brumbach family genealogy''<ref>Genealogy of the Brumbach families, Gaius Marcus Brumbach, Frederick H Hitchcock Genealogical Publisher, New York, 1913, p 273</ref>, Gaius Marcus Brumbach describes Hans Jacob's arrival in America and family as follows:

:According to tradition among some of his Virginia descendants, he and a young woman, his fellow passenger across the Atlantic, served ''Joseph Strickler'' for seven years.

Brumbach cites several laws about indenture, and notes difference in the duration of the term among them, so the term could have been shorter, but because the duration of the gap falls within a typical timeframe of indenture,  the family story that they were indentured may certainly be true.  Accepting Wayland's statement that Jacob was not a "Redemptioner", it is possible that the indenture was for land.

While unable to identify the "young woman", Brumbach continues:

:After their service to Strickler ended they married and had one son, ''George''.  After the death of this wife Jacob Roadcap married a widow ''Good'' (first name unknown), and had by her one child, ''Peter''.<ref>Brumbach does not provide any references for this information.</ref>

<u>(2) Anna Naef m. ~1750?</u>

In his 1752 will, Jacob names is "dear wife" Anna.  Anna is said to be the widow of Caspar Guth/Good.  And it is notable that a court order for a guardian bond for Casper Good's two children<ref>Augusta County, Virginia, Order Book No. 3, 1749-1753, Film # 007893723 [Image 724 of 756], https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS4H-HQZ6-L?i=723&cat=275633</ref>, who chose their guardian, occurred on the same day Jacob's will was presented in court:

:'''A court held for Augusta County May the 16, 1753'''
:Connard [sic] Cood and Jacob Cood Orphans of Casper Cood, dec'd chose Paul Long their Guardian whereupon the s'd Long with John Dellard his security entered into and acknowledged their Bond in the Penalty of Fifty Pounds for securing the said Orphans Estate and Indemnifying the Court.

After Jacob's death (and before his probate) Anna married George Hollonbeck, named as guardian of Jacob's orphans (except John George) in the 1762 bond.

=== Children ===

With Barbara Haller:
* John George b. Abt 1741
* Elizabeth b. ?; m. Casper Kendell (Kindell?) 21 July 1767 or 12 May 1768 [two dates], Rowan County, North Carolina
* Anna/Hanah b. ?; m. George Eithholtz (Echols) 13 Jun 1774, Rowan, North Carolina<ref>"North Carolina, County Marriages, 1762-1979 ", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:Q21B-XM6G : Sun Mar 10 19:31:19 UTC 2024), Entry for George Eicholtz and Anne Rotecap Spencer, 19 Jun 1774.</ref>
* Barbara b. ?; m. Martin Biffell 28 Jun 1769, Rowan, North Carolina<ref>"North Carolina, County Marriages, 1762-1979 ", , FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:Q21B-XPTL : Sun Mar 10 23:08:41 UTC 2024), Entry for Martin Biffell and Barbary Roadcap, 20 June 1769.</ref>.  The marriage register indicates "Spinster"<ref>"North Carolina, County Marriages, 1762-1979 ," database with images, FamilySearch (https://familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3QSQ-G9VH-G4G6?cc=1726957&wc=QD8P-69Q%3A1588772726%2C1588773730 : 19 July 2016), Rowan > Marriage records, 1762-1868 > image 42 of 158; North Carolina State Archives Division of Archives and History.</ref>.
* Catherine b. ?; m. Henry Easensey<ref>Chancery Records Index, Shenandoah County, Index 1803-017, Lewis Lyon & WIFE vs. John George Roadcap ETC, https://www.lva.virginia.gov/chancery/full_case_detail.asp?CFN=171-1803-017#img </ref> m. Bef. 17th Nov 1770, (unknown); m. Lewis Lyon<ref>Lewis Lyon & WIFE vs. John George Roadcap ETC, op cit</ref> Aft. 1778, Bef. Dec 1799

With Anna Naef:
* Peter b. Abt 1751

There is no historic document that supplies birth years for their children, but Jacob's will and a 1762 bond suggest that they were all younger than 12 when Jacob died.

Jacob's will makes account for a time when John George would be "at age", and no similar account is made for the other children.  Possibly because of this, it is often assumed only John George had not attained majority by the time Jacob died.

However, on 19 May 1762:  "Ord. Church Wardens bind Peter Road Cap, Eliz, Hanah, Barbara, & Cath Roadcap orphans of Jacob Rodcap to Geo. Hollowback."<ref>Augusta County Minute Book, 1762, page 31, Court session 19 May 1762, Library of Virginia, Augusta County microfilm, Reel 62D</ref>.  Chalkley adds "Moses Maiden to be bound."<ref>Chronicles of the Scotch-Irish settlement in Virginia, Lyman Chalkley, [Virginia] : M.S. Lockwood, 1912, Vol 1 Page 97, https://www.familysearch.org/library/books/viewer/202922/?offset=0#page=97&viewer=picture&o=info&n=0&q=</ref>.

John George is missing from the list of orphans being bonded, making it possible to assume that he had attained majority, while his siblings had not, and that John George is Jacob's oldest son and oldest child.  On the basis of the information in the guardian bond, John George's birth year is estimated at 1741.

Regarding Peter, the land identified in Jacob's will was not divided between John George and Peter until 1772<ref>Deed Book A Page 76, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS4K-VSC6-1?i=47&cat=385833</ref>.  In this deed, John George is grantor and Peter is grantee.  Later in the same year, there is a 1772 deed to Gasper Good<ref>Deed Book A Page 494, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS4K-VS4K-Y?i=279&cat=385833</ref>, from "Peter Roadcap and Hannah his wife of the County of Dunmon and colony of Virginia":  "containing 30 acres more or less being part of a larger Tract formerly granted to Jacob Roadcap by deed from Proprietors H[???] bearing date the 15th day of September one thousand seven hundred and forty nine which said land is situate on Mill run in the said County..."  Because the execution of the division of land required by the will did not occur until 1772, it can be assumed that Peter had not attained majority until 1772, and so was not legally able to own land until then.  On the basis of these deeds, Peter's birth year is estimated at 1751.

Taking the Brumbach information above, identifying the names of Hans Jacob's wives, and parsing the specific words used, the "one son" phrasing would place John George and all of Hans Jacob's daughters with Barbara Haller, and Peter ("one child") would have been the only child with Anna (Naef) Good.

== Sources ==
<references />
