== Biography ==
[Per WikiTree profile]:

"Peter was born in 1762. He was the son of [[Rothgeb-117|Peter Rothgeb]] and [[Mary-1533|Hannah Mary]].  He passed away in 1839."

== Research Notes ==

Contemporary documents:
# First appearance of "Peter Roadcap Jr" in Rockingham County, Virginia personal property tax is 1824<ref>Personal property tax lists 1816-1824, Virginia. Commissioner of the Revenue (Rockingham County), film 33509, image 405</ref>
# First appearance of "Peter Roadcap Jr" in Rockingham County, Virginia land tax is 1830<ref>Land tax lists, 1830-1836., Virginia. Commissioner of the Revenue (Rockingham County), film 29967 image 43</ref>, which shows "Rodecap Peter Jr & bro." inheriting land from Peter Roadcap Sr.
# 12 Mar 1831 Deed from "Peter Roadcap" (with no reference to a wife) to William W. Pollack, Book 10 Page 154<ref>https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSYD-8QJ5-Z?i=440&cat=386882</ref>.  In this deed, Peter Jr. is selling his interest in the "plantation or Tract of land whereon his mother Mary Roadcap now lives in Brocks Gap", "the same land willed to same Peter Roadcap by his Father Peter Roadcap Deceased".  He also sells "interest he purchased of his Brother Joseph Roadcap in another tract of Land willed to sa[id] Joseph Roadcap by same Peter Roadcap dec'd".  He is also selling livestock and farming implements.
# 15 Apr 1839 Deed from "Peter Roadcap" (with no reference to a wife) to Jacob R. Roadcap, Book 13 Page 193<ref>https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSYD-B8J3?i=130&cat=386882</ref>, selling "one hundred acres more or less in Brocks Gap", which "was granted to George Kilmer by patent [in] 1794".
# "Peter Roadcap Jr" is not listed in the Rockingham County land tax after 1839<ref>Land tax lists, 1830-1836., Virginia. Commissioner of the Revenue (Rockingham County), film 29968 image 277</ref>.
# In Rockingham personal property tax lists, "Peter Roadcap" (referencing Peter Jr) appears annually from 1824 to 1856, with a few exceptions.
# 1850 Census<ref>The National Archives in Washington D.C.; Record Group: Records of the Bureau of the Census; Record Group Number: 29; Series Number: M432; Residence Date: 1850; Home in 1850: District 56, Rockingham, Virginia; Roll: 974; Page: 75b</ref> shows "Peter Roadcap", 50 years old, living with Mahala Mathews and her 2-year-old son Erasmus.
# 1860 Census<ref>The National Archives in Washington D.C.; Record Group: Records of the Bureau of the Census; Record Group Number: 29; Series Number: M653; Residence Date: 1860; Home in 1860: District 1, Rockingham, Virginia; Roll: M653_1379; Page: 812; Family History Library Film: 805379</ref> shows "Peter Roadcap", Age 65, living alone in Rockingham.

The birth year stated in the Biography is widely distributed by Roadcap genealogy experts, but cannot be confirmed by the available contemporary documents.  His mother is sometimes shown as Hannah, sometimes Mary, and sometimes Hannah Mary.

The 12 Mar 1831 deed yields the following conclusions about Peter Jr's family relationships:
* The Peter Jr. is the son of [[Rothgeb-117|Peter Rothgeb (abt.1739-1824)]]
* The Peter Jr. is the brother of Joseph Roadcap, also son of [[Rothgeb-117|Peter Rothgeb (abt.1739-1824)]].

Tax and census documents yield the following possible conclusions about Peter Jr's birth year:
* It seems likely that Peter Roadcap Jr. was born 1795-1798, and died soon after the 1860 census (i.e. before 1862, when the death registry was started).  Peter Sr's tithable counts provides context for estimating a birth year: 1 in 1812, 2 in 1813, 3 in 1814, 2 in 1815 (without a new Roadcap in the list), 3 in 1817, 2 in 1820, 1 in 1824 when Peter Jr and Joseph appear in the list.  His age in the census suggests as early as 1795.

The tax and land documents yield the following possible conclusions about Peter Jr's mother:
* If one accepts a 1795-1798 birth year, then Peter Roadcap Sr. is clearly the person who married Mary Lipp, and Peter Jr. is their son.  The right and duty to manage the sale of Mary's land would more likely land to her son Peter Jr than to one of Hannah's sons.

The land documents yield the following possible conclusions about Peter Jr's marital status:
* Peter Roadcap Jr. never married, since there is no reference to a wife in the deeds.

=== Notes on 1850 census context ===
* Erasmus Mathews/Mathias married Amanda Hawse 22 Feb 1877<ref>Rockingham County, Virginia - Self Service SRA, Marriage Document 1877-00134, https://rockinghamcountyva-web.tylerhost.net/web/document/DOCCACS-2716966?search=DOCSEARCH133S8</ref>.  In the marriage document, his parents are shown as Isaac Mathias and Mahala Daugherty.  Amanda's parents are John Hawse and Christena Mauck.
* Isaac Mathews (or Mathias) married Mahala Dougherty 6 Oct 1842<ref>Ancestry.com. Virginia, U.S., Select Marriages, 1785-1940 [database on-line]. Provo, UT, USA: Ancestry.com Operations, Inc, 2014.</ref><ref>Rockingham County, Virginia - Self Service SRA, Marriage Document 1842-00080, https://rockinghamcountyva-web.tylerhost.net/web/document/DOCCACS-2736528?search=DOCSEARCH133S8</ref>.  Mahala is daughter of Valentine Dougherty.
* Mahala Mathews subsequently married David Lamb 27 Aug 1857<ref>https://rockinghamcountyva-web.tylerhost.net/web/document/DOCCACS-2730540?search=DOCSEARCH133S8</ref>.  The marriage certificate indicates that Mahala is a widow, and daughter of Valentine Dougherty and Mary his wife.
* In the 1850 census, Isaac and Ann Rudy appear next after Mahala, Erasmus and Peter.  Isaac Rudy married Ann Roadcap 3 Oct 1840<ref>Rockingham County, Virginia - Self Service SRA, marriage document 1820-00071, https://rockinghamcountyva-web.tylerhost.net/web/document/DOCCACS-2745207?search=DOCSEARCH133S8</ref>, and the bond shows that she is the daughter of Peter Roadcap Sr.  [William Herron's "Sr" can look like "Jr", but inspection of his list of tithables in the 1820 personal property tax list corroborates that Ann's father is "Sr" and not "Jr".]  The marriage bond is signed by "Peter Roadcap" ("his mark"), without specifying Sr or Jr.


== Sources ==
* https://www.familysearch.org/tree/person/details/29TV-LJV

* "Virginia Marriages, 1785-1940," database, FamilySearch (https://familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:XRD9-PHG : 11 February 2018), Peter Roadcap and Mary Lip, 28 Dec 1795; citing Madison, Virginia, reference p247; FHL microfilm 32,595.

<references />