== Biography ==

=== Vital Facts ===
* Name:  Peter Rothgeb or Roadcap
* Parents:  Hans Jacob Roadcap/Rothgeb and Elizabeth Rinderknecht
* Spouse (1):  Hannah<ref>Deeds, Vols. E-F 1783-1788, Shenandoah County, Virginia, Vol F, p 306, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS4K-233Y-W?i=404&cat=385833</ref>
* Spouse (2):  [[Lipp-177.wikitext|Mary Lip]]<ref>"Virginia, Vital Records, 1715-1901", database, FamilySearch (https://familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3QSQ-G9XF-N2B3?cc=4149585 : 7 November 2023), > image 1 of 1., Madison County (Virginia). County Clerk</ref>, m. 28 Dec 1795
* Residence: Shenandoah birth-1786; Rockingham 1787-death
* Death:  1824<ref>Administration Bonds, Vol 2, 1819-1864, p 17, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3QS7-99PH-C94P-8?i=1200&cat=362867.</ref>


=== Birth ===
Generally considered to be born in 1739.
* There is no document with Peter's birth year, and none with even a decade bracket at any point in time, aside from being "45 and above" in the 1810 and 1820 censuses.
* Peter's father Hans Jacob was married in 1734 and died in 1752, so it is likely that Peter was under 18 at Hans Jacob's death.  The difficulties of migration and a possible requirement for an indentured period may have further delayed the arrival of Jacob's children.
* On 19 May 1762:  "Peter, Elizabeth, Hannah, Barbara, Catharine, Orphans of Jacob Rodcap, to be bound to Geo. Hollowback.  Moses Maiden to be bound."<ref>Chronicles of the Scotch-Irish settlement in Virginia, Lyman Chalkley, [Virginia] : M.S. Lockwood, 1912, Vol 1 Page 97, https://www.familysearch.org/library/books/viewer/202922/?offset=0#page=97&viewer=picture&o=info&n=0&q=</ref>.  If Peter is not of age in 1762, as the guardian bond suggests, then his birth year could be several years later than what is generally considered to be true.  Peter's brother John George is absent from the list, suggesting that Peter is the younger brother.

'''===> Research Note:

Published Brumbach family genealogy research<ref>Genealogy of the Brumbach families, Gaius Marcus Brumbach, Frederick H Hitchcock Genealogical Publisher, New York, 1913, p 273</ref> contains a narrative of Hans Jacob's arrival in America:

:According to tradition among some of his Virginia descendants, he and a young woman, his fellow passenger across the Atlantic, served ''Joseph Strickler'' for seven years.

The researcher further explains that the laws about this kind of indenture varied, and the term could have been shorter.  While unable to identify the "young woman", the narrative continues:

:After their service to Strickler ended they married and had one son, ''George''.  After the death of this wife Jacob Roadcap married a widow ''Good'' (first name unknown), and had by her one child, ''Peter''.  

A different version of their marriage is found in an account of the trip across the Atlantic<ref>A history of the Goshenhoppen Reformed charge, Montgomery County, Pennsylvania (1727-1819), William John Hinke, Lancaster [Press of the New era printing company], 1920, p 101, https://archive.org/details/historyofgoshen00hink/page/100/mode/2up</ref>, which references "a pamphlet which Ludwig Weber, one of the emigrants, who returned to Zurich from Holland, wrote and published at Zurich in 1735 as a warning to later venturesome spirits<ref>The title page of this pamphlet reads: ''Der Hinckende Bott von Carolina Oder Ludivig Webers von Walliselen Beschreibung seiner Reitse von Zurich gen Rotterdam, mit derjenigen Gesellschaft welch neulich aus dem Schweizerland nach Carolinam zu Ziehen gedachte'', Zurich, MDCCXXXV, pp. 32. Only known copy in the city library at Zurich</ref>.  This account lists "Jacob Rathgeb and Barbara Haller" among four couples who were married by a Reformed minister in Neuwied in October 1734.  They arrived in Philadelphia 29 May 1735.

Adding names to the Brumbach information, and parsing the specific words used, the researcher's "one son" phrasing places John George and all of Hans Jacob's daughters with Barbara Haller, and he had only Peter ("one child") with Anna Naef.  A researcher must decide whether the Brumbach narrative can be trusted, because trusting it would significantly alter the perceived birth years of the children.

Given the era, it would be surprising for a couple married in 1734 to avoid childbirth until (for example) 1740.  However, considering that the age of orphans would be younger than 21, the children listed in the guardian bond (and certainly Peter) would have been born after 1740, and John George's absence from the list suggests that he is the eldest, and possibly born 1740.  It is also possible that the timing of the guardian bond was prompted by John George reaching majority age.

'''<===

=== Children ===

Hannah:
* Elizabeth b. 1773 m. William Irvine 5 Sep 1800 <ref>https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-C91F-Y9JK-4?cc=2134304&cat=1173023</ref> 
* John<ref>Strickler, Harry Miller.. Tenth legion tithables (Rockingham Division) Rockingham County, Virginia : tithables for 1792, a list of all the white males above 16 years of age in the county and all the slaves above 12 in the county in 1792. Luray, Va.: Strickler, 1930.,page 43</ref> b. 1776<ref>Based on being 16 years old in 1792 Tithable List</ref>
* ? Mary{{Citation needed}} b. 1779{{citation needed}}
* ? Jacob{{Citation needed}} b. 1781<ref>Peter's tithable count rises to 2 in 1798 and back to 1 in 1791 without a new Roadcap son appearing in the list.  This is possibly just a clerical error, or possibly a son who moved away before the 1799 enumeration.</ref>
* Emanuel b. 15 Sep 1787<ref>Frieden's Lutheran and German Reformed Church (Rockingham County, Va.). Baptisms, 1789. Accession 27621, microfilm (Misc. reel 349). Church records collection, The Library of Virginia, Richmond, Va. 23219.</ref> and baptized 23 Aug 1789.

'''===> Research Note:

The 1783 and 1785 Virginia censuses (see below) show "6 White Souls". The list above satisfies this tally, but "Mary" and "Jacob" have not been confirmed in contemporary documents. 

'''<===

Mary:
* Peter Jr. b. Abt. 1797{{Citation needed}}
* Ann b. Bef. 1798 m. Isaac Rudy 3 Oct 1840<ref>Rockingham County, Virginia - Self Service SRA, marriage document 1820-00071, https://rockinghamcountyva-web.tylerhost.net/web/document/DOCCACS-2745207?search=DOCSEARCH133S8</ref>.  Bond shows Ann is daughter of Peter Roadcap Sr.  (William Herron's "Sr" can look like "Jr", but inspection of his list of tithables in the 1820 personal property tax list confirms that Ann's father is "Sr" and not "Jr".)
* Joseph b. Abt. 1801{{Citation needed}}

The names Peter Jr and Joseph both intially appear in the tax list in 1824, even though Peter Sr's tithable count increased from 1 to 2 in 1813, and 2 to 3 in 1817.  In 1826 they appear together as "Peter & Jo", and in 1830 they appear in the land tax as "Peter Jr & Jos".  The order of the names is taken to show that Peter Jr is the older of the two, and their birth years are calculated as being 16 years before the corresponding increases in Peter Sr's tithable count.

'''===> Research Note:

The 1810 census<ref>Year: 1810; Census Place: Harrisonburg, Rockingham, Virginia; Roll: 67; Page: 144; Image: Vam252_67-0195; FHL Roll: 0181427</ref> shows 1 male under 10, and 2 males 10-15.  It is possible that there is a son missing from the children by Mary, either because of migration or an early death. It is also possible that there is a clerical error, or that a relative's son was living with the family to help on the farm.

'''<===

=== Residence in Shenandoah County, Virginia ===
Land Transactions:
* 1772 "Indenture of Lease"<ref>Deed Book A Page 76, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS4K-VSC6-1?i=47&cat=385833</ref> from George Roadcap:  "...a certain Tract or parcel of Land lying on both sides of Mill run in Frederick county being the one half of a 400 acre Patent Tract lately the property of Jacob Roadcap Deceased and containing 200 acres more or less..."
* 1772 "Indenture of Release"<ref>Deed Book A Page 77, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS4K-VSC6-1?i=47&cat=385833</ref> from George Roadcap "and Mary his wife", for the same land as above.
* 1772 deed to Gasper Good<ref>Deed Book A Page 494, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS4K-VS4K-Y?i=279&cat=385833</ref>, from "Peter Roadcap and Hannah his wife of the County of Dunmon and colony of Virginia":  "containing 30 acres more or less being part of a larger Tract formerly granted to Jacob Roadcap by deed from Proprietors H[???] bearing date the 15th day of September one thousand seven hundred and forty nine which said land is situate on Mill run in the said County..."
* 1786 "Indenture of Lease"<ref>Deed Book F Page 305, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS4K-23Q4-8?i=403&cat=385833</ref> to Isaac Strickler & Abraham Spitler, from "Peter Rothgab of the County of Shanandoah & state of Virginia":  "...a certain tract or parcell of land lying on both sides of mill Run in Shanandoah County being part of 400 Acres patent tract lately the property of Jacob Roadcap deceased And Containing One hundred and Seventy acres be the same more or less and bounded as follows..."
* 1786 "Indenture of Release"<ref>Deed Book F Page 306, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS4K-233Y-W?i=404&cat=385833</ref> to Isaac Strickler, from "Peter Roadcap and Hanah his wife of the County of Shanandoah and State of Virginia" for the same land as above.

In the Shenandoah County Personal Property Tax lists 1782-1786<ref>Personal property tax lists 1782-1799, Shenandoah County, https://www.familysearch.org/search/film/007856300?cat=695422</ref> Peter shows only 1 tithable throughout.

The 1783<ref>List of inhabitants (Virginia), 1782 - 1785, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSKJ-3SYW-J?cat=386611</ref> and 1785<ref>List of inhabitants (Virginia), 1782 - 1785, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSKJ-3SY3-5?cat=386611</ref> Virginia censuses show Peter Roadcap's household with 6 "White Souls".

=== Residence in Rockingham County, Virginia ===

In a deed July 1787, Peter Roadcap purchased land from John Craw<ref>Deed Book 000 p 363</ref>. The deed has not survived.  The Rockingham County Land Tax for 1787<ref>Land tax lists, 1782-1803, Rockingham County, Virginia, Film # 007893690, Image 85</ref> shows 199 acres for "Peter Rodecap from Crow".  Accounting for this acreage is made difficult based on the land tax and the 9 Mar 1798 deed (see below).
* A Sep 1786 deed to John Craw from Robert Cravens<ref>Deed Book 0, Page 312</ref> "...heir apparent - Law of John Cravens deceased..." sold "...one certain tract or parcel of land lying and being in the the county aforesaid on a branch of of Draft of the South Branch of Linville Mill Creek Just granted to Robert Cravens Grandfather to ye beforementioned Robert Cravens by patent bearing Date the Tenth Day of February one thousand and seven hundred and forty eight...containing by Estimation one hundred and Thirty six acres ..."
* A 17 Jun 1746 deed to Robert Cravens [grandfather] from the estate of William Duff<ref>Augusta County, Virginia, Deed book V. 1 1745-1749, page 114, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSL6-MQPC?i=65&cat=282708</ref> sold 670 acres "...on the North side of Linwells Creek..."

Peter Roadcap married [[Lipp-177.wikitext|Mary Lip]] 29 Dec 1795<ref>Marriage Bonds & Consents, 1793-1798, Library of Virginia County Records microfilm, Madison County, Reel 67</ref>.
* Mary provided her own consent.  The marriage bond does not provide her father's name, or indicate if she is a widow of single.
* Bond signed 28 Dec 1795 by Peter Roadcap (His Mark), and Daniel Good
** Casper and Daniel Good are listed in the 1795 Madison County Personal Property Tax list<ref>https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS3L-73TJ-G?i=75&cat=1131688</ref>.  There is a 1783<ref>Deed Book C page 537, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSKK-61B8?i=285&cat=385833</ref>deed transferring 30 acres of land from Caspar Good and his wife Catharina to George Roadcap his heirs and assigns, showing a relationship between the two families.
** There is a marriage record in Culpeper County Virginia<ref>Compiled Marriages, 1660-1800, Dodd, Jordan, Dodd, Jordan, comp.. ''Virginia Marriages to 1800''. Electronic transcription of marriage records held by the individual counties in Virginia, Ancestry.com Operations Inc, 1997</ref> showing a 23 Feb 1791 marriage between Daniel Good and Elizabeth Lip.  
** There is a 24 Oct 1795 will<ref>Order Books, 1793-1892; Author: Virginia. County Court (Madison County); Probate Place: Madison, Virginia, Will Book 1, page 157</ref> written by Daniel Lip:
*** The will states that Daniel Lip is the brother of Elizabeth (Lip) Goode, wife of Daniel Goode, and Mary Lip. 
*** Regarding Mary Lip:  "I give to my sister Mary Lip at the death of my Mother one fourth part of all my estate both Real and personal to her and to her heirs forever, but if my Sister Mary Lip Should depart this life without lawful heir I give that said fourth part of my Estate at her death to be equally divided between my brothers and Sisters namely Henry Lip, Jacob Lip and Elizabeth Goode to them and all their heirs forever."
*** The will was certified 28 Dec 1795, and Mary Lip married Peter Roadcap the next day.
*** The will was "fully proved" and recorded 25 Jan 1798.

In a deed 9 Mar 1798<ref>Rockingham Deed book 00, page 261, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS4X-9GG1?i=473&cat=386882</ref>, Peter "and Mary his wife" sold 134 acres on the "South Branch of Linville Creek" to John Graham.  The 1798 Land Tax<ref>Land tax lists, 1782-1803, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS4C-R725-2?cat=410902</ref> shows a 30 acre and 1 lot remainder held by Peter Roadcap.  The disposition of this land after 1803 is unknown.

There is a Rockingham deed June 1799<ref>Deed Book 00, page 350, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS4X-9G8B?i=519&cat=386882</ref> showing "Kelmer" selling land to "Roadcap".  None of the deed survived, even the given names of the parties.  However, the Rockingham Land Tax for 1800<ref>Land tax lists, 1782-1803, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS4C-R72J-7?i=629&cat=410902/ref> shows Peter Roadcap with a new 100 acres.

In a deed 25 August 1809 in Madison County, Virginia<ref>Madison County Deed Book 5, page 6</ref> "Jacob Lipp and Margaret his wife of the County of Madison Peter Redcap and Mary his wife of the County of Rockingham and State of Virginia" sold 155 acres to Loveless Mitchell, likely disposing of all interest in land devised by Daniel Lip in his 1795 will.

Peter Roadcap Sr is listed continuously in the Rockingham Personal Property Tax<ref>Personal property tax lists of Rockingham County, 1782-1863, Virginia. Commissioner of the Revenue (Rockingham County), Salt Lake City, Utah : Filmed by the Genealogical Society of Utah, 1955</ref> from 1788 through 1824.

Peter died in 1824.  He wrote a will, which has subsequently been lost.
** Probate:  4 Oct 1824<ref>Rockingham County Minute Book 11 (1824-1826), page 174, https://www.rockinghamcountyva.gov/DocumentCenter/View/1869/Minute-Book-11-1824-1826?bidId=</ref>: "The Last will and Testament of Peter Roadcap deceased was presented in court and proved by the oath of George Mauck and Christian Shoemaker 2 witnesses thereto and ordered to be recorded whereupon George & Christian Fulk the executors named in the said will and the execution therein named refused to qualify as executors which is ordered to be certified."
** Administrator:  "Samuel Cootes administrator with the will annexed of Peter Rodecap".  Deeds from Peter and Joseph also mention a will:
*** In a 12 Mar 1831 Deed<ref>Book 10 Page 154, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSYD-8QJ5-Z?i=440&cat=386882</ref> "Peter Roadcap" is selling his interest in the "plantation or Tract of land whereon his mother Mary Roadcap now lives in Brocks Gap", "the same land willed to same Peter Roadcap by his Father Peter Roadcap Deceased".  He also sells "interest he purchased of his Brother Joseph Roadcap in another tract of Land willed to sa[id] Joseph Roadcap by same Peter Roadcap dec'd".
*** In a 19 Sep 1831 deed<ref>Burnt deed books, Vols. 9-10 1829-1832, Book 10 p 361, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSYD-8QJK-6?cat=386882</ref>, Joseph "Redcap" is selling land "Containing one Hundred Acres belonging to the Estate [of] Peter Redcap Sr. Deceased and which land was willed by the Said Peter Redcap Sr. to his two Sons [ ] Said Joseph Redcap Jr. which will is of Record in the County office of the County Court of [Rock]ingham ..."

After Peter's death, his sons Peter and Joseph sold the land they inherited.
* Feb 1831 Deed from "Peter Roadcap" to William W. Pollack, Book 10 Page 154<ref>https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSYD-8QJ5-Z?i=440&cat=386882</ref>. In this deed, Peter Jr. is selling his interest in the "plantation or Tract of land whereon his mother Mary Roadcap now lives in Brocks Gap", "the same land willed to same Peter Roadcap by his Father Peter Roadcap Deceased".  He also sells "interest he purchased of his Brother Joseph Roadcap in another tract of Land willed to sa[id] Joseph Roadcap by same Peter Roadcap dec'd".
* 1838 Deed from "Peter Roadcap" to Jacob R. Roadcap, Book 13 Page 193<ref>https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSYD-B8J3?i=130&cat=386882</ref>, selling "one hundred acres more or less in Brocks Gap", which "was granted to George Kilmer by patent [in] 1794".

=== 1803 Chancery Case:  Lyon vs. Roadcap ===
* County:  Shenandoah
* Index number:  1803-017
* Plaintiffs:  Lewis Lyon & WIFE
* Defendants:  John George Roadcap ETC
* Complaint:  Catharine Lyon, "late Catharine Esanee [Easinsy?] late Catharine Roadcap one of the daughters, devisees and heirs of John Jacob Roadcap"

Complaint:
* John Jacob Roadcap dec'd, in his lifetime, seized in fee of a certain Tract of 400 acres of Land situate lying in the now County of Shenandoah (then Augusta) as well as a Very considerable personal estate.
* John Jacob Roadcap made and published his Last will and Testament in writing on the 19th. day of December 1751. His widow and Paul Long were named executors.
** Devised to his son John George Roadcap Two Hundred acres of Land on the Lower end of his plantation.
** Devised to his son Peter Two Hundred on the upper end of his plantation.
** Devised to his daughters Elizabeth, Ann, Ann Barbara, and your Oratrix Catharine and equal share of the Value of said Land when appraised, to be paid by his two sons to each of his daughters.
** The Land has not been appraised, and the daughters are without their inheritance.
** Their mother alone took upon her the execution of the said will, and consumed the whole of the personal estate.
*  Their mother remarried.

Answer from Peter Roadcap:
* Appraisal was made.
* Catharine's portion was sent to Henry Easinsey, her late husband, who resided in North Carolina, which Gasper Good paid him and took his receipt...17th Day of November 1770

Answer from John George Roadcap:
* Appraisment was taken to Winchester and there recorded in the Court of Frederick County, in which county the land then laid.
* Catharine "intermarried with a certain Henry Easinsey of Salisbury in the State of North Carolina"
* Mother "intermarried with a certain George Hollowback [or Hollyback], and they agreed to sell her dower land to John George.

== Research Notes ==
[[https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3QS7-99P7-3CHZ?i=571&cat=279443|Hans Jacob's probate inventory]]

== Sources ==
<references />






