== Biography ==

=== Vital Facts ===
* Name:  John George Rothgeb (Roadcap)
* Birth: Abt. 1741 ([[#birth|See below]])
* Parents:  [[Radtgab-6.wikitext|Hans Jacob Roadcap/Rothgeb]] and Barbara Haller
* Spouse (1):  Magdalena Beidler b. 1742?, m. 1763?, d. 1769?
* Spouse (2):  Mary Greybill b. ?; m. 1770?; d. 1778? (died giving birth to twins George and Christian<ref>Genealogy of the Brumbach families, Gaius Marcus Brumbach, F. H. Hitchcock, New York, 1913, p. 273</ref>)
* Spouse (3):  Barbara Bear b. ?; m. 1785?; d. Abt 1828<ref>Page County Will book, v. A, 1831-1838, p 309, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3QS7-89P4-FLKN?i=189&cat=377952</ref>
* Residence: 
* Death:  1823 ([[#death|See below]])

=== Birth ===
Jacob Rothgab's will 19 Dec 1752<ref>Augusta County, Will books, v. 1 1745-1753, film 30314, Will Book 1, page 497, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3QS7-99P7-3CZT?cat=279443</ref> makes account for a time when John George would be "at age", and no similar account is made for the other children, particularly Peter, who was to inherit half the land.  Possibly because of this, it is often assumed only John George had not attained majority by the time Jacob died.

However, on 19 May 1762:  "Ord. Church Wardens bind Peter Road Cap, Eliz, Hanah, Barbara, & Cath Roadcap orphans of Jacob Rodcap to Geo. Hollowback."<ref>Augusta County Minute Book, 1762, page 31, Court session 19 May 1762, Library of Virginia, Augusta County microfilm, Reel 62D</ref>.  Chalkley adds "Moses Maiden to be bound."<ref>Chronicles of the Scotch-Irish settlement in Virginia, Lyman Chalkley, [Virginia] : M.S. Lockwood, 1912, Vol 1 Page 97, https://www.familysearch.org/library/books/viewer/202922/?offset=0#page=97&viewer=picture&o=info&n=0&q=</ref>.

John George is missing from the list of orphans being bonded, allowing the assumption that he had attained majority by then, while his siblings had not, and that John George is Jacob's oldest son and oldest child.  On the basis of the information in the guardian bond (i.e. at least 21 in 1762), John George's birth year is estimated at 1741.

=== Marriage ===
John George survived two of his three wives.  The years of their birth, marriage and death are estimated based on the possible and known birth years of their respective children.

=== Children ===

With Magdalena Beidler:
* Isaac b. 1764?; m. Ann Bear daughter of Blasius Bear<ref>Shenandoah County, Deed Book H p 500</ref>.  He first appears in the Shenandoah Personal Property tax list in 1786<ref>Shenandoah County, Personal property tax lists 1782-1799, 1786, p 13; Film 1905722 Item 2 Image 513, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS79-2QJT-W?i=512&cat=695422</ref>
* Abraham b. 1765?; m Anna Strickler 12 Mar 1794;<ref>"Virginia, County Marriage Records, 1771-1989," database with images, FamilySearch (https://familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-C91F-TQFF-R?cc=2134304 : 13 November 2021),image 1 of 1; Accomat county court clerk offices, Virginia.</ref> First listing in the Personal Property Tax 1795.
* Elizabeth b. 28 Oct 1766<ref>Genealogy of the Brumbach families, Gaius Marcus Brumbach, Frederick H Hitchcock Genealogical Publisher, New York, 1913, p 274, quoting her husband</ref>; m. John Brumbach 27 Mar 1787<ref>ibid, p. 274</ref>
* Jacob b. 1768?; m "Barbary Widock" 26 Apr 1792<ref>"Virginia, County Marriage Records, 1771-1989," database with images, FamilySearch (https://familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-C91F-TQ66-2?cc=2134304 : 14 November 2021), > image 1 of 1; Accomat county court clerk offices, Virginia.</ref>, consent reads:  "These is to Sartyfie that I Henry Wietick am willing that Jacob Radbab shall have my tator Barbry Wietick by the [Consent?] of my tator there fore please to grand him lieseons to be married.  Given unter my hand these 25 Day of April 1792... "; First listing in the Shenandoah County Personal Property Tax 1793.  First listing in Gallia Ohio County tax list 1821.

With Mary Greybill:
* David b. 1770?; m Elizabeth Strickler ("Step daughter of Abm. Roadcap") 12 Mar 1796<ref>"Virginia, County Marriage Records, 1771-1989," database with images, FamilySearch (https://familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-C91F-L3Q9-L?cc=2134304 : 4 November 2021),image 1 of 1; Accomat county court clerk offices, Virginia.</ref>; First listing in the Personal Property Tax 1796.
* Barbara b. ?; m. Philip Trigler 18 Dec 1794<ref>"Virginia, County Marriage Records, 1771-1989," database with images, FamilySearch (https://familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-C91F-TQFY-Z?cc=2134304 : 13 November 2021), > image 1 of 1; Accomat county court clerk offices, Virginia.</ref>.  Bond signed by David Roadcap, but bond reads "Barbary Roadcap daughter of George Roadcap who has certified his consent thereto as proved by the oath of David Roadcap".  The D.A.R. transcription indicates she is the daughter of David and Fanny.  George's German-ish signature on the consent could be read as "Fanny".
* George (twin) b. 1778?; m Anna Spitler 31 Oct 1797<ref>"Virginia, County Marriage Records, 1771-1989," database with images, FamilySearch (https://familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-C91F-L3QL-R?cc=2134304 : 8 November 2021),image 1 of 1; Accomat county court clerk offices, Virginia.</ref> (Bond dated 28 Aug 1797<ref>"Virginia, County Marriage Records, 1771-1989," database with images, FamilySearch (https://familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-C91F-L3WH-4?cc=2134304 : 3 November 2021),image 1 of 1; Accomat county court clerk offices, Virginia.</ref>; First listing in the Shenandoah County Personal Property Tax 1799.  First listing in Gallia County Personal Property Tax 1826.
* Christian (twin) b. 1778?; m Elizabeth Lear ("daughter of John Lane"?) 5 Apr 1803<ref>"Virginia, County Marriage Records, 1771-1989," database with images, FamilySearch (https://familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-C91H-CQ51-J?cc=2134304 : 3 February 2022), > image 1 of 1; Accomat county court clerk offices, Virginia.</ref>; First listing in the Shenandoah County Personal Property Tax 1801, but missing 1802 and after.  First listed in Rockbridge County Personal Property tax in 1804.

With Barbara Bear:
* Samuel b. 1795?; m. Mary Strickler Jun 1811<ref>"Ohio, County Marriages, 1789-2016," database with images, FamilySearch (https://familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:33SQ-GRMD-S2GS?cc=1614804&wc=Z51G-N38%3A121350101%2C121422401 : 15 July 2014), Gallia > Marriage records 1803-1843 vol 1 > image 15 of 240; county courthouses, Ohio.</ref>.  First listing in Gallia, Ohio tax list 1816<ref>"Ohio Tax Records, 1800-1850," database with images, FamilySearch (https://familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:33SQ-GPPV-9SGB?cc=1473259 : 29 March 2019), > image 1 of 1; Tax records indexed by Ohio Genealogy Society. Citing multiple county courthouse offices, Ohio.</ref>.
* Joseph b. 1786?; m Mary Spitler 3 May 1805<ref>"Virginia, County Marriage Records, 1771-1989," database with images, FamilySearch (https://familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-C91F-B7J4-Y?cc=2134304 : 12 November 2021), image 1 of 1; Accomat county court clerk offices, Virginia.</ref>; First listing in the Personal Property Tax 1807.
* John b. ?1787; m Anna Strickler 3 Jun 1808<ref>"Virginia, County Marriage Records, 1771-1989," database with images, FamilySearch (https://familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-C91F-B7JV-D?cc=2134304 : 14 November 2021),image 1 of 1; Accomat county court clerk offices, Virginia.</ref>; First listing in the Personal Property Tax 1808.  First listing in Gallia County Personal Property tax list 1818.
* Michael b. 1795?; m ?; First listing in the Personal Property Tax 1816.
* Reuben b. 1803?; m Suanna Magerd 6 Mar 1827<ref>"Virginia, Vital Records, 1715-1901", database, FamilySearch (https://familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3QS7-L9XF-CNWC?cc=4149585 : 31 May 2024), > image 1 of 1.</ref>, m. Elizabeth Maggart 12 Nov 1839<ref>Marriage bonds of Page County, Virginia, 1831-1851, D.A.R, https://www.familysearch.org/library/books/viewer/293742/?offset=0#page=24&viewer=picture&o=info&n=0&q=</ref>; First listing in the Personal Property Tax 1824.
* Henry b. 1805?; First listed in Gallia County Personal Property tax list in 1826.
* Anna b. 20 Jan 1774; m. 3 Jul 1819 Jacob Strickler<ref>"Virginia Marriages, 1785-1940", database, FamilySearch (https://familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:XR78-LW5 : 6 August 2020), Anna Roadcap in entry for Jacob Strickler, 1819.</ref>
* Esther b. Bef. 1794; m. Isaac Spitler 29 Nov 1815<ref>"Virginia, County Marriage Records, 1771-1989," database with images, FamilySearch (https://familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-C91F-TS2Q-N?cc=2134304 : 30 November 2021), > image 1 of 1; Accomat county court clerk offices, Virginia.</ref>.  Consent indicates "over the age of 21".
* Mary (Unconfirmed) possibly b. Abt 1798<ref>The National Archives in Washington D.C.; Record Group: Records of the Bureau of the Census; Record Group Number: 29; Series Number: M432; Residence Date: 1850; Home in 1850: District 49, Page, Virginia; Roll: 967; Page: 309b</ref><ref>The National Archives in Washington D.C.; Record Group: Records of the Bureau of the Census; Record Group Number: 29; Series Number: M653; Residence Date: 1860; Home in 1860: District 2, Page, Virginia; Roll: M653_1369; Page: 743; Family History Library Film: 805369</ref>; m. Isaac Shaver 14 Nov 1831<ref>https://www.familysearch.org/library/books/viewer/293742/?offset=0#page=7&viewer=picture&o=info&n=0&q=</ref>.
* Unnamed daughter

With Mary Greybill or Barbara Bear:
* Daniel (died very young)

=== Residence in Shenandoah ===

Census:
* 1783<ref>List of inhabitants (Virginia), 1782 - 1785, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSKJ-3SYW-J?cat=386611</ref> George Roodcap | 14 white Souls
* 1785<ref>List of inhabitants (Virginia), 1782 - 1785, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSKJ-3SY3-X?i=691&cat=386611</ref> George Roadcap | 13 white souls | 1 dwelling house | 2 out house
* 1810<ref>Year: 1810; Census Place: Shenandoah, Virginia; Roll: 71; Page: 16; Image: Vam252_71-0032; FHL Roll: 0181431</ref> George Roadcap Sen.| 1 male 10-15 | 1 male 16-25 | 1 male 26-44 | 1 male 45+ | 1 female 10-15 | 2 females 16-25 | 1 female 45+
* 1820<ref>Fourth Census of the United States, 1820; Census Place: Strasburg, Shenandoah, Virginia; Page: 158; NARA Roll: M33_138; Image: 171</ref>, Strasburg, Shenandoah, Virginia, USA, | 1 male under 10 | 1 male 16 thru 25 | 1 male 45 and over | 4 females under 10 | 1 female 16 thru 25 | 1 female 45 and over | 1 "Slaves 26-44"

Land transactions:
* 1777 Casper Good to George Rothcap Book C p 537:  "Casper Good and Catharina his wife of the County of Shanadoah & Colony of Virginia of the one part and George Rothcap of the County and Colony aforesaid...land containing thirty acres more or less ... formerly granted to Jacob Rothcap by deed...".  (Peter Roadcap had sold this 30 acres to Casper Good in 1774.)
* 25 Sep 1786 George Roadcap to Daniel Heite Book F p 213, "between George Roadcap and Barbara his wife... and Daniel Hite... a small Tract of Thirty acres which the said George Roadcap purchased of one Casper Good which was part of a larger Trace of four hundred acres which was formerly Granted to Jacob Roadcap by Deed from the proprietors office bearing the date the Fifteenth day of September an'o Dom' 1749..."
* 2 Oct 1792 Jacob Bear to George Roadcap Book H p 500, "between Jacob Bear and Elizabeth his wife of Rockbridge County...Peter Blauser and Magdalena his wife, Isaac Roadcap and Ann his wife... (the said Jacob Bear Magdalena and Ann being children and heirs of Blasius Bear late of the said county of Shenandoah deceased) and George Roadcap ... of the other part...one certain piece parcel or tract of Land situate lying and being near Thornton's pass in Shenandoah County it being a moity of a tract of three hundred and fourteen acres granted to Blasius Bear by Deed from the proprietors office of the northern neck of Virginia bearing date the first day of February one thousand seven hundred and sixty three..."
* 12 Oct 1795 George Rodecap to Abraham Rodecap Book K p 23:  "George Rodecap and Barbara his wife... of the one part and Abraham Rodecap... of the other part... a certain tract or parcel of Land lying and being in the County of Shanandoah on the Mill run it being part of two tracts of Land to wit part of a tract of four hundred acres which was formerly granted to Jacob Rodecap by deed from the proprietors office of the northern neck of Virginia bearing date the fifteenth day of September in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and forty nine and part of a tract of sixty three acres which was conveyed by[to?] the said George Rodecap by John Taylor and Magdalene his wife by their Certain Deed of Lease and release bearing date of the 27th & 28th days of September 1770...containing 75 acres and also one tract or parcel of Land Lying and being in the said County and near the above mentioned tract it being part of a tract of one hundred and thirty one & one half acres Granted to the said George Rodecap by Patent bearing date the twenty fifth day of September in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and Eighty nine and that part thereof which is hereby conveyed to the said Abraham Rodecap ... containing forty acres"
* 26 Aug 1805 John Pence to George Roadcap Book O 
** p 394:  "between John Pence and Elizabeth his wife...of the one part and George Rodecap & Joseph Spitler ...of the other part...a certain tract of land lying in ... County of Shenandoah containing one hundred and forty acres of land which was granted to Lewis Pence, and from him descended to his son the aforesaid John Pence one hundred and ten acres whereof the said John Pence conveyed to Henry Belles one hundred and ten acres to Michael Wise, forty acres to Joseph Pence, ten acres to Henry Pence & six acres to Rudolph Baker and the remaining one hundred and sixty acres are hereby intended to be conveyed to the said George Rodecap & Joseph Spitler..."  (the language and punctuation makes it difficult to add up the acres).  The signature shows the surname spelling differently:  "John Bentz", his signature.
** p 397:  "between John Pence and Elizabeth his wife...of the one part and George Rodecap & Joseph Spitler ...of the other part... two certain tracts of land lying in the County of Shenandoah, the one containing one hundred and forty eight acres being the same tract of land which was granted to the said John Pence by Patent under the Seal of the Commonwealth dated the fifteenth day of August one thousand seven hundred and ninety six, the other tract containing Eighty acres, and was also granted to the said John Pence by Patent bearing date the thirty first day of August one thousand seven hundred & ninety nine.  Again the signature shows the surname spelling differently:  "John Bentz", his signature.
* 12 June 1809 George Roadcap to Thomas Tuckwiller Book Q p 474:  "Between George Raodcap and Barbara his wife...of the one part and Thomas Tuckwiller...of the other part... certain pieces parcels and tracts of Land lying and being in the said County [of Shenandoah] and near Thorntons pass one containing one hundred and fifty seven acres...conveyed to the said George Roadcap by Jacob Bear and others by deed bearing date the 22nd day of October 1792... The other tract lying in the drains of Dry run and was granted by the Commonwealth of Virginia to the said George Roadcap by deed bearing date the 12th day of August 1794... containing thirty one acres..."
* 10 Jun 1811 George Roadecap to Joseph Roadcap Book S p 187:  "Between George Roadcap and Barbara his wife... of the one part & Joseph Roadcap (son of the said George) ... of the other part... the following two pieces, parcels or tracts of land to Wite, one certain tract or parcel of Land lying and being in the said County of Shenandoah on Mill  being part of the Lands whereon the said George Roadcap now lives ... containing eighty eight acres and a half acre ... and also the other tract piece or parcel of land by and being in the Said County of Shenandoah and part of a tract of one hundred thirty one and a half acres, which was granted to the said George Roadcap by patent bearing date the 25th day of September, in the year of our Lord Seventeen hundred & eighty nine ... containing twenty five acres..."
* 1814 George Gander to George Roadcap Book V
** p 386:  "Between George Gander and Anna his wife...of the one part and George Roadcap ...of the other part.  ...a certain tract piece or parcel of land lying and being in the County aforesaid [Shenandoah] on the South river of Shenandoah being a part of the tract whereon the said Gander now lives, which was granted to him by the Heirs of Christian Hershberg dec'd by their certain deed of Bargain an sale bearing date the second day of October one thousand eight hundred and _________ containing _____ acres, ... containing one hundred and seven acres
** p 388: (Anna Gander could not "conveniently" come to court, so magistrates needed to be authorized to get her approval of the sale.)

=== Death ===
George Roadcap is listed in the Shenandoah County Property Tax list until 1823<ref>Shenandoah, 1823, Jos. Strickler's property tax list, p 20, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS79-29D8-M?i=319&cat=695422</ref>, and his 1817 will was not proved until 11 Nov 1823.

[[https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-C9PF-H7P1?i=141&cat=366558 |Jacob Rotecap's 1817 will, proved 11 Nov 1823]]

== Research Notes ==
Marriage bonds of Page County, Virginia, 1831-1851, D.A.R:
* Joseph Roadcap<ref>Son of George Jr.</ref> m. Frances Huffman 23 May 1831 Page County<ref>https://www.familysearch.org/library/books/viewer/293742/?offset=0#page=7&viewer=picture&o=info&n=0&q=</ref>
* Abraham Roadcap m. Sally Strickler 15 Aug 1831<ref>https://www.familysearch.org/library/books/viewer/293742/?offset=0#page=7&viewer=picture&o=info&n=0&q=</ref>
* Mary Roadcap m. Isaac Shaver 14 Nov 1831<ref>https://www.familysearch.org/library/books/viewer/293742/?offset=0#page=7&viewer=picture&o=info&n=0&q=</ref>
* Mary Roadcap<ref>Daughter of George Jr.</ref> m. Edmund Rosenbarger 14 Dec 1836<ref>https://www.familysearch.org/library/books/viewer/293742/?offset=0#page=18&viewer=picture&o=info&n=0&q=</ref>
* Isaac Roadcap m. Barbara Kaufmann 16 Jan 1837<ref>https://www.familysearch.org/library/books/viewer/293742/?offset=0#page=18&viewer=picture&o=info&n=0&q=</ref>
* Elizabeth Roadcap m. Abr. Strickler 7 Nov 1837<ref>https://www.familysearch.org/library/books/viewer/293742/?offset=0#page=20&viewer=picture&o=info&n=0&q=</ref>
* John Roadcap m. Rachel Ann Kauffman 29 Nov 1837<ref>https://www.familysearch.org/library/books/viewer/293742/?offset=0#page=20&viewer=picture&o=info&n=0&q=</ref>
* Nancy Roadcap m. Gideon C. Burbaker 13 Aug 1838<ref>https://www.familysearch.org/library/books/viewer/293742/?offset=0#page=21&viewer=picture&o=info&n=0&q=</ref>
* Reuben Rothgeb m. Elizabeth Maggart 12 Nov 1839<ref>https://www.familysearch.org/library/books/viewer/293742/?offset=0#page=24&viewer=picture&o=info&n=0&q=</ref>
* Christine Rothgeb (daughter of Abrm. Rothgeb) m. Reuben Dadisman 19 Sep 1843<ref>https://www.familysearch.org/library/books/viewer/293742/?offset=0#page=32&viewer=picture&o=info&n=0&q=</ref>

== Sources ==
<references />
