[[Category:Friedens United Church of Christ Cemetery, Friedens, Virginia]]
== Biography ==

Anna Mary (Keller) Ruebush was born in Mar 1736 in York Co., Pennsylvania, daughter of [[Keller-7652|Johannes Hans Keller]] (1700 - 1796).

Her siblings were:
#[[https://www.wikitree.com/wiki/Keller-9356|John Keller Lt Colonel]] (~1736 - ~1800)
#[[https://www.wikitree.com/wiki/Cellar-17|Thomas Cellar]] (~1741 - 1816)
#[[https://www.wikitree.com/wiki/Keller-9366|Rebecca (Keller) Mcamis]] (1741 - 1830)
#[[https://www.wikitree.com/wiki/Keller-9367|Susannah (Keller) Dixon]] (~1743 - 1818)
#[[https://www.wikitree.com/wiki/Keller-7651|George Keller]] (1753 - 1823)

Anna (~31) married [[Raudenbusch-5|Johann Heinrich Raudenbusch]]  (~32) (~1735 - 1784) in 1767 in Frieden Church, Rockingham Co., VA. Their children were:
#[[https://www.wikitree.com/wiki/Raudenbusch-13|Margaret (Raudenbusch) Long]] (1768 - 1839)
#[[https://www.wikitree.com/wiki/Raudenbusch-14|Susannah Raudenbusch]] (1772 - )
#[[https://www.wikitree.com/wiki/Ruebush-75|George Ruebush]] (1775 - 1851)
#[[https://www.wikitree.com/wiki/Raudenbusch-15|Marie Raudenbusch]] (~1776 - ~1820)
#[[https://www.wikitree.com/wiki/Ruebush-6|John Ruebush]] (1782 - 1874)
#[[https://www.wikitree.com/wiki/Ruebush-76|Peter (Ruebush) Rubush]] (1784 - 1879).

=== Marriage ===
FamilySearch.org:
* Johann Raudenbusch KN4F-1Z2
* Birth 1732 Pennsylvania
* Death 1784 Hagerstown, Washington co., Maryland, 
* Spouse: Anna Maria Keller KJMD-ZD4 
* Birth March 1736 York Co., Pennsylvania
* Death 20 July 1815 Rockingham Co., VA
* Marriage: Abt 1767 Frieden Church, Rockingham Co., VA<ref>Preserved due to reference.  The marriage likely took place in York, Pennsylvania or Washington County, Maryland.  Migration to Virginia began in 1792.</ref>

=== Residence ===
A 30 Oct 1792 Deed in Washington County, Maryland<ref>Liber G 1790-1792, page 879</ref> shows that Mary Ruebush "widow" reconveyed 20 acres "being part of the resurvey on Hagars delight" to Jonathan Hagar.  She had received the land from Jonathan Hagar "by a certain Deed of Indenture heretofore made on the fourth day of September in the year seventeen hundred and eighty four", and the land adjoined to "the Lands of John and George Cellars".

Anna Mary's son George and her son-in-law, Adam Long, were first enumerated in the personal property tax lists of Rockingham County, Virginia in 1792<ref>Rockingham County, Virginia, Personal Property Tax, 1792, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS4F-FSHH-S?i=423&cat=411278</ref>:
* Adam Long enumerated 31 Aug 1792<ref>Lofftus' list, p 23</ref>
* George Robush enumerated 7 Sep 1792<ref>Lofftus' list, p 32</ref>

Anna Mary appears also to have relocated to Rockingham County, Virginia, probably in the fall of 1792. 
* On 11 May 1794 "Anna Maria Rautenbusch" sponsor for baptism of Susanna, daughter of "Conrad Klein & wife"<ref>German Church Records, p 12</ref><ref>Tauf und Kirchen Buch p 13</ref>
* The 1810 census<ref>Year: 1810; Census Place: New Haven, Rockingham, Virginia; Roll: 67; Page: 133; Image: Vam252_67-0173; FHL Roll: 0181427</ref> shows one female over 45 living in the household of "George Roudebush" (the oldest male is in the 26-44 bracket).

=== Death ===
Anna died on 20 Jul 1815 in Rockingham Co. aged ~79. She is buried in Friedens United Church of Christ Cemetery, Friedens, Virginia.


== Research Notes ==

=== Children ===
May 27, 1788, Orphans Court in York Pennsylvania<ref>"Pennsylvania Probate Records, 1683-1994," images, FamilySearch (https://familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3QS7-L99B-2W67?cc=1999196&wc=9PMD-923%3A268493601%2C268514801 : 3 July 2014), York > Orphans' Court dockets 1782-1803 vol E-H > image 292 of 886; county courthouses, Pennsylvania.</ref>:
::Came into Court Margaret Roudebush Aged Nineteen Years, Susannah Roudebush Aged Seventeen Years and George Roudebush Aged fourteen Years and upwards Minor Children of John Roudebush deceased.  And Prayed to be Permitted to Choose a Guardian to take Care of their Persons & Estates and being asked by the Court named Michael Roudebush of Berwick Township York County Whereupon the Court Appoint the said Michael Roudebush to be the Guardian of the said Minors.

=== Census ===
1776 census of Maryland<ref>1776 census of Maryland, Carothers, Bettie Stirling, https://www.familysearch.org/library/books/viewer/362513/?offset=#page=1&viewer=picture&o=info&n=0&q=</ref>
* There are no names like Roudenbusch or Ruebush in this census.
* The index in this publication is incomplete, since (as an example) there are Kline names listed, but none are indexed.

United States Census 1790, Maryland, Washington County<ref>"United States Census, 1790," database with images, FamilySearch (https://familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:33SQ-GYY8-33X1?cc=1803959&wc=22HB-YHT%3A1584070902%2C1584070905%2C1584070607 : 14 October 2022), Maryland > Washington > Not Stated > image 17 of 24; citing NARA microfilm publication M637, (Washington D.C.: National Archives and Records Administration, n.d.). {{FamilySearch Image|33SQ-GYY8-33X1}}</ref>
{| border="1" class="wikitable" | style="padding: 5px;"
|+ "Mary Roudobush"
|- 
| Number of free white males age 16 years and upwards, including head of family || - 
|-
| Number of free white males under 16 years old || 1
|-
| Number of free white females, including head of family || 2 females
|- 
| Number of all other free persons [free African-Americans] || -
|- 
| Number of slaves || -
|}

=== Church Records ===
Friedens Lutheran and Reformed Church<ref>German Church Records of Rockingham County, Virginia, translated and compiled by Brigitte Burkett, Picton Press, Rockport Main</ref><ref>Tauf und Kirchen Buch vor die gemeinschaftliche vereinigte Gemeinde an der Friedens Kirche Rockingham County, Library of Virginia microfilm (Misc. reel 349)</ref>
* On 11 May 1794 "Anna Maria Rautenbusch" sponsor for baptism of Susanna, daughter of "Conrad Klein & wife"<ref>German Church Records, p 12</ref><ref>Tauf und Kirchen Buch p 13</ref>
* "Anna Maria Rautenbusch" sponsor for baptism of "a daughter" of Georg Brauna 12 Apr 1801<ref>German Church Records, p 30</ref><ref>Tauf und Kirchen Buch p 43</ref>
* "Anna Maria Rautebusch" grandmother and sponsor of the baptism of Rahel, daughter of Georg Lange, widower, 30 Jul 1806<ref>German Church Records, p 51</ref><ref>Tauf und Kirchen Buch p 86</ref>
** "George Long" married Elizabeth Bodey 10 Aug 1807<ref>Rockingham County, Virginia - Self Service SRA, Marriage License, Document Number: 1807-00051</ref>
** "George Long" married Sally Stumbo 29 Aug 1812<ref>Rockingham County, Virginia - Self Service SRA, Marriage License, Document Number: 1812-00164</ref>.  Signature looks different from 1807 bond.
* 7 Nov 1801:  "Anna Maria Rathebusch donated to the congregation today, the 7th November 1801, two cloths, -- an alter cloth and another silk cloth, to be used for Holy Communion."<ref>German Church Records, p 116</ref><ref>Tauf und Kirchen Buch p 196</ref>

=== Death ===
The original headstone<ref>Find a Grave, database and images (https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/54746218/anna-mary-ruebush : accessed 15 May 2022), memorial page for Anna Mary “Mollie” Keller Ruebush (1736–20 Jul 1815), Find a Grave Memorial ID 54746218, citing Friedens United Church of Christ Cemetery, Friedens, Rockingham County, Virginia, USA ; Maintained by Karen Sites (contributor 46780297).</ref>, apearing to be inscribed by hand, reads "HAR LYS MARY RUEBUSH SHE WAS BORN IN MARCH 1736 AND DIED 20 JULY 1815 HIR HOLE AGE 79 YARS 4 MOUNTH".  A later headstone, placed in the 1950's by Joseph Keiffer Ruebush, reads "MARY KELLER RUEBUSH 1736 ------ 1815, WIFE OF JOHN RUEBUSH, DIED 1784, FATHER & MOTHER OF GEORGE JOHN PETER 1775-1851 1782-1874 1784-1879".

Notes from a 20 Jul 2006 by Bob and Lois Emswiler and Martha Lee:  "w/John, parents of George, John, Peter".  It seems unlikely that John is actually buried here, since he died in 1784, and Marie migrated to Rockingham in 1792.  [[https://www.wikitree.com/wiki/Ruebush-75|George Ruebush (1775-1851)]], [[https://www.wikitree.com/wiki/Ruebush-6|John Ruebush (1782-1874)]] and [[https://www.wikitree.com/wiki/Ruebush-76|Peter (Ruebush) Rubush (1784-1879)]] have adjoining graves, as does [[https://www.wikitree.com/wiki/Raudenbusch-13|Margaret (Raudenbusch) Long (1768-1839)]].

== Bibliography ==
''Mary Ruebush 1736-1815 and Her Family in Virginia'' Ruebush family genealogical notes, typed manuscript, 29 leaves; Library of Virginia, Archives and Manuscripts Room, #24471.  The manuscript includes snapshots pasted on the pages.  No author's name is given.

== Sources ==
<references />
FamilySearch.org

See also:

* Find a Grave, database and images (https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/54746218/anna-mary-ruebush : accessed 15 May 2022), memorial page for Anna Mary “Mollie” Keller Ruebush (1736–20 Jul 1815), Find a Grave Memorial ID 54746218, citing Friedens United Church of Christ Cemetery, Friedens, Rockingham County, Virginia, USA ; Maintained by Karen Sites (contributor 46780297) .

* Powers, R. B. (1967). A record of my maternal ancestors. Edwards Bros.

* "Virginia Deaths and Burials, 1853-1912", database, FamilySearch (https://familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:X5TP-TDS : 29 January 2020), Rubush in entry for Jno. Rubush, Sen., 1874.