== Biography ==

This Ruebush is likely the one who changed the name from Raudenbusch to Ruebush.  His wife was originally buried with the spelling, Ruebush, and is the earliest tombstone with that name.  

Johann Heinrich Raudenbusch, better known as “John”. John was the oldest of Hans Heinrich and Anna Mary Raudenbusch's children, and was born about 1735 in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania. He married Anna Mary “Mollie” Keller, who was a German immigrant baby on the ship “Princess Augustus” around 1736. He was a farmer and a miller, and settled near Hagerstown, Maryland. John and Mollie had several children, when John drowned in 1787. His brother, Michael, was appointed guardian of three of the children: 
*Margaret, 
*Susannah, 
*George. 
They also had two other boys: 
*John,
*Peter.

After John’s tragic death, Mollie remained in Maryland for a while. In 1792, she resold her land back to Jonathan Hager, son of the founder of Hagerstown, Maryland, whom she had originally bought the land, and moved to Rockingham County, Virginia. She settled near Frieden’s Reformed Church, three miles east of Mr. Crawford, Virginia. Mollie, John, and family were members of the Zion Reformed Church in Maryland. Mollie died on July 20, 1815, and is buried in Frieden’s cemetery in Rockingham County, Virginia. At some point in John and Mollie’s lives, the family changed the spelling of their last name from Raudenbusch, to Ruebush.

=== Name ===
: Name:  Johann /Raudenbusch/<ref>Source: [[#S13]]  Page:  1 or more individual Ancestry Family Tree files were combined to create this source citation. NOTEInformation extracted from various family tree data submitted to Ancestry.com and The Generations Network</ref><ref>Source: [[#S13]]  Page:  1 or more individual Ancestry Family Tree files were combined to create this source citation. Data:   Text:  http://trees.ancestry.com/pt/AMTCitationRedir.aspx?tid=5547111&pid=-1434391684 NOTEInformation extracted from various family tree data submitted to Ancestry.com and The Generations Network</ref>

FamilySearch.org:
Johann Raudenbusch KN4F-1Z2​​, 
Birth 1732 Pennsylvania
Death 1784 Hagerstown, Washington Co., Maryland, 
Spouse: Anna Maria Keller KJMD-ZD4​​, 
Birth March 1736 York Co., Pennsylvania
Death 20 July 1815 Rockingham Co., VA
Marriage: Abt 1767 Frieden Church, Rockingham Co., VA

=== Research Notes ===

Committee of Observation for Elizabeth Town District:  Minutes of the "Committee appointed for Licencing"<ref>"Proceedings of the Committee of Observation for Elizabeth Town District [Washington County]", Maryland Historical Magazine, Vol. XIII, September, 1918. No. 3., page 240</ref>

                  Monday 18 December 1775
                 Joseph Smith in the Chair
 Christian Orendorph         John Rentch
 Andrew Rentch               Conrad Hogmire
 George Swengle              John Keller

    Mick Kiernan @ Thos Nelan.
    Andw Miller @ '''John Ronderbush''' and Michael Hayes.
    Ignatius Innus @ Thos Morrow.
    If John Stull will not Bring Suit aginst John Adair before
 next meeting Said Adair may have Licence aginst John Stull.
    Sanderson and good @ Mch Menser.
    James McClealahan @ Mary Vulgamutt.
    Rudolph Souther @ Peter Palmer.
    Ignatius Simms @ Thomas Powel.
    Thomas Simms @ John Lydny—2 Suits.

== Sources ==
FamilySearch.org

<references />

* Source: <span id='S13'>S13</span> Title:  Ancestry Family Trees Publication:  Name: Online publication - Provo, UT, USA: The Generations Network.  Original data:  Family Tree files submitted by Ancestry members.; Note:   CONT