== Biography ==

Birth:  1760-1770.  The 1830 census<ref>Year: 1830; Census Place: Rockingham, Virginia; Series: M19; Roll: 199; Page: 233; Family History Library Film: 0029678</ref> shows John with possible brother Peter and nephew Jacob.  Oldest male in the household is age 60-69.  Grave stone indicate 13 JUL 1762.

There are a few "John Koontz" names appearing in the Rockingham County.  The subject John Koontz first appeared in the tax list in 1789.<ref>Personal property tax lists of Rockingham County, 1782-1863, "page 5th", image 246</ref>.  He is often identified with labels "(Tanner)" and Keezletown in the tax lists.

Death:  1846.  The year is calculated based on information from the deed for the "Division of Land"<ref>Rockingham County Burnt deed book, v. 19, 1846-1847, page 311, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSYX-VSCF-C?i=171&cat=386882</ref>, which begins:  "Agreeable to an order of the County Court of Rockingham Made at the January Term 1847...".  Grave stone indicates death date 9 SEP 1846 .

John's children were listed in "A Statement of advancements made by John Koontz Sr In his life time to his children":
* John Koontz b. About 1799, m. Frances C Huffman 19 Oct 1835, d. about 1877.
* Elizabeth Seals (William), b. 25 May 1795, m. 24 Feb 1816, d. 16 Jan 1874 Montgomery County, Indiana
* Peter Koontz b. About 1799, m. Harriet Davis 7 Oct 1861, d. 12 Feb 1865
* Charles Nicholas (Polly), m. 20 Sep 1824
* David Scott (Barbary), m. 5 Jan 1829

The deed indicates that he left a widow, but does not name her.

The Rockingham County death register<ref>Library of Virginia; Richmond, Virginia; Virginia Deaths and Burials, 1853-1912</ref> shows Catharine Koontz died 22 Sep 1858 in Keezle Town. She is daughter of Michael Troberger of Pennsylvania, "Consort of John Koontz".  Information was provided by her son, Peter.