== Biography ==

=== Vital Facts ===
* [[#name|Name]]: Peter Koontz Sr (''see also [[#regarding-peter-dietrich-koontz|Regarding "Peter Dietrich Koontz"]]'')
* [[#birth|Birth]]:  Abt. 1735-1740 Province of Maryland (''see also [[#siblings|Siblings]])
* [[#residence|Residence]]:  Rockingham, Virginia (''see also [[#rockingham-county-personal-property-tax|Rockingham County Personal Property Tax]] '')
* [[#marriage|Marriage]]:  [https://www.wikitree.com/wiki/Boyer-1564 Christina Boyer]
* [[#death|Death]]:  1835, probably in October

[[#children|Children]]:
* [[Koontz-1153.wikitext|Peter Jr.]] b. about 1765
* Katherine b. 1766?
* Susannah b. about 1770
* Phillip b. about 1774
* John b. about 1776
* Daniel b. 1781
* Adam b. about 1786

== Research Notes ==

=== Name ===

Peter Koontz Sr

The 1790 Rockingham County Personal Property Tax list<ref>Personal property tax lists of Rockingham County, 1782-1863, Personal property tax lists 1782-1796, Virginia. Commissioner of the Revenue (Rockingham County), Salt Lake City, Utah : Filmed by the Genealogical Society of Utah, 1955, Film 33507, image 323, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS4F-FSW2-W?i=322&cat=411278</ref>, shows "Counce Peter Sen", when "Counce 'Peter Jr'" attains the head of household status.

Alternate surname spellings before 1800:  Counce, Kounce, Counts, Countz, Koonts

=== Birth ===
The 1830 census<ref>Year: 1830; Census Place: Rockingham, Virginia; Series: M19; Roll: 199; Page: 231; Family History Library Film: 0029678</ref> shows "Peter Koontz Senr" in the 90-99 age bracket, i.e. born 1731-1740.  While age 99 is within range, a younger range, 90-95, is more likely, and would narrow his birth year range to 1735-1740.

=== Residence ===
Peter and Phillip Koontz appear together in every tax list<ref>Personal property tax lists of Rockingham County, 1782-1863, Virginia. Commissioner of the Revenue (Rockingham County), Salt Lake City, Utah : Filmed by the Genealogical Society of Utah, 1955</ref> and census, right up to Peter's death in 1835.  It is reasonable to assume that Peter migrated to Virginia with Phillip, as described in Phillip's 15 Oct 1832 Revolutionary War pension application<ref>Ancestry.com. U.S., Revolutionary War Pension and Bounty-Land Warrant Application Files, 1800-1900 [database on-line]. Provo, UT, USA: Ancestry.com Operations, Inc., 2010.  Original data:Revolutionary War Pension and Bounty-Land Warrant Application Files (NARA microfilm publication M804, 2,670 rolls). Records of the Department of Veterans Affairs, Record Group 15. National Archives, Washington, D.C.</ref>. 

:''He was born in the state of Maryland he cannot say positively what year, but believes his age to be about eighty, he has no record of his age.  He removed to Virginia when he was about nineteen years of age, and lived on the South Branch about two years, and then removed to Rockingham County, where he has resided since.''

In the book "Mountain Valley People"<ref>Mountain Valley People: A Historical Sketch of a Section Of Rockingham County Virginia And It's People, Mary Marie Koontz Arrington (Gateway Press, Inc., Baltimore) 1982, Page 79</ref>, Marie Arrington puts Phillip's birth at 1752-55, which appears to assume that he was ''at most'' 80 in 1832. However, in context of other primary resources (detailed in "Siblings" below), it may be safer to assume that he is a bit older than 80, and he may be as old as 87, which would put the migration to Virginia occurring 1764-1771, with an inclination to narrow it down to 1766-1768.

Early land and tax records provide additional context for Peter's early residence in the Rockingham area:
# A land grant survey was made for "Abraham Boyer and Peter Koontz" in Augusta County, 7 Jun 1774<ref>Abstract of land grant surveys, 1761-1791, Peter Cline Kaylor, Dayton, Virginia : Shenandoah Press, 1938, page 93, under "Page 270"</ref>.  "150 acres, Long Meadows [Rockingham County after 1778].  Adjoining Thomas Lookey, Thomas Moore."
# "Peter Counts" and "Phillip Counts" appear in Daniel Smith's 1777 Tithable list<ref>List of tithables, 1777-1778, Augusta County (Virginia). County Clerk https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS4C-SJG3?i=18&cat=282893</ref>, having 1 Tithable.
# Of Peter's children, Peter Jr. is the only one that can be shown to have been born in Maryland, because the 1880 census provides father's birthplace, and 3 of Peter Jr's children were still living in 1880: Enos, Abraham and Malinda (married Joseph Dossey)<ref>Year: 1880; Census Place: Sugar Creek, Randolph, Missouri; Roll: 712; Page: 38a; Enumeration District: 105</ref><ref>Year: 1880; Census Place: Central, Rockingham, Virginia; Roll: 1388; Page: 279b; Enumeration District: 072</ref>, and his birth is estimated to be around 1764 (see "Children" below).
# Of the other known older children, Katharine and Susannah, Katharine has no known children, but in the 1880 census<ref>Year: 1880; Census Place: Camden, Ray, Missouri; Roll: 713; Page: 408a; Enumeration District: 138</ref> Susannah's daughter, Mary Christianna (Huling) Conrad, shows "Virginia" as mother's birthplace .  Suannah is thought to have been born in 1770, but this is unconfirmed.

<u>Census Information</u>

* 1810 Census<ref>Year: 1810; Census Place: Harrisonburg, Rockingham, Virginia; Roll: 67; Page: 142; Image: Vam252_67-0192; FHL Roll: 0181427</ref>: 
** Residence:  Harrisonburg, Rockingham, Virginia
** Household:  1 Male over 45 and over; 1 Female 45 and over
* 1820 Census<ref>Fourth Census of the United States, 1820; Census Place: Rockingham, Virginia; Page: 146; NARA Roll: M33_139; Image: 161</ref>
** Residence:  &#91Not stated&#93, Rockingham, Virginia
** Household:  1 Male 45 and over; 2 Females under 10; 1 Female 45 and over; 5 enslaved
*1830 Census<ref>Year: 1830; Census Place: Rockingham, Virginia; Series: M19; Roll: 199; Page: 231; Family History Library Film: 0029678</ref>
** Residence:  &#91Not stated&#93, Rockingham, Virginia
** Household: 1 Male 90 thru 99; 4 enslaved

=== Siblings ===

The given primary source material supports Peter, Phillip, Jacob, Martin and Mary (Bargle) as siblings:

# In a deed book entry 20 April 1808<ref>Deed Book 0000, Burnt deed books [transcripts], 1778-1863, Rockingham County (Virginia). Clerk of the County Court (Salt Lake City, Utah : Filmed by the Genealogical Society of Utah) 1952, Page 145, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS3J-Z9Z9-7?i=386&cat=386882</ref> Jacob Koontz signed a power of attorney for "my Brother Phillip Koountz[sic]" to act on Jacob's behalf in matters related to the estate of "My brother Martin Koountz[sic] Deceas'd", particularly after Martin's wife's decease.  If Phillip dies before she does, then Phillip's son Jacob is to act as attorney for his uncle Jacob.
# Jacob Counts was born in 1747, according to a DAR burial record<ref>Ohio, Soldiers Grave Registration Cards, 1804-1958 (Fold3) 2017 https://www.fold3.com/image/615827006</ref> <ref>See also US, War of 1812 Service Record Index, 1812-1815, National Archives, Publication number M602, https://www.fold3.com/image/307279249/counts-jacob-page-1-us-war-of-1812-service-record-index-1812-1815.  A search found records for him in the War of 1812, in "1 Regiment (Scott's) Kentucky Vols", and his Soldiers Grave Registration Card can only be found searching for the War of 1812, but the card itself says "War served in:  Revolutionary".</ref> showing "Jacob Counts, b. 1747 d. 28 Sep 1829, buried at Riverside Cemetery, Troy, Miami County, Ohio".  The birth year is by calculation from information on the tombstone:  "Sept. 28 1829 in the 82nd year of his age". Peter would have been between 7 and 16 years old in 1747 when Jacob was born, based on the 1840 census 90-99 age range for Peter Koontz Senr, 
# In Phillip's Revolutionary War pension application<ref>Ancestry.com. U.S., Revolutionary War Pension and Bounty-Land Warrant Application Files, 1800-1900 &#91database on-line&#93. Provo, UT, USA: Ancestry.com Operations, Inc., 2010.  Original data:Revolutionary War Pension and Bounty-Land Warrant Application Files (NARA microfilm publication M804, 2,670 rolls). Records of the Department of Veterans Affairs, Record Group 15. National Archives, Washington, D.C.</ref> he says he does not know what year he was born and estimates his age to be "about 80".  Similarly, in a deposition 13 Nov 1802<ref>Chronicles of the Scotch-Irish settlement in Virginia, Chalkley, Lyman, 1861-1934, Vol 2, M. S. Lockwood, 1912, page 45</ref> he stated that he was 50 years old.  However, in a census of veterans in 1840<ref>Year: 1840; Census Place: Rockingham, Virginia; Roll: 577; Page: 69; Family History Library Film: 0029692</ref>, he offered that he  was 95 years old, and the 1840 census<ref>Year: 1840; Census Place: Rockingham, Virginia; Roll: 577; Page: 69; Family History Library Film: 0029692</ref> he is shown in the 90-99 category.  In this analysis, the ages 50 and 80 in the testimonies may be taken as "in his 50's" and "in his 80's", which would better correlate to the age in 1840, and estimate his birth year as 1745.
# Chalkley shows a "Martin Counce" in a list of road workers for a road ordered 24 Nov 1753 "from Saml. Stalnaker's, on Holston River, to James Davis's"<ref>Chalkley, Vol 1, page 61</ref>.  Samuel Stalnaker was a "German emigrant from Pennsylvania who settled in 1750 on the middle fork of the Holston river, where he was still living in 1768-1769"<ref>Encyclopedia of Virginia Biography, edited by Lyon Gardiner Tyler (Lewis Historical Publishing Company, New York) 1915, Vol. I, Page 329</ref>.  The 1753 road worker would have been 16 years old or older, born 1737 or earlier, which would make Martin somewhat older than otherwise thought.  The location would have been in Augusta county at the time.  If it is the same Martin Koontz, it would make him likely the eldest of the siblings.
# Mary m. Jacob Bargle.  She inherits some land from Martin, who had no children, with the provision that her son inherits after she dies.  A sibling relation is generally inferred from this.

''Siblings:
# [[Koontz-229.wikitext|Peter Koontz Sr (abt.1738-1835)]]
# [[https://www.wikitree.com/wiki/Kunz-676|Philip (Kunz) Koontz (1746-1841) (in WikiTree)]]
# [[https://www.wikitree.com/wiki/Koontz-1344|Martin Koontz (abt.1740-1805) (in WikiTree)]]
# [[https://www.wikitree.com/wiki/Counts-1549|Jacob Counts (1747-1829) (in WikiTree)]]
# [[https://www.wikitree.com/wiki/Koontz-1345|Mary (Koontz) Bargle (abt.1750-) (in WikiTree)]]

=== Marriage ===

No marriage record has been found for Peter, but it is thought he married Christena Boyer, daughter of Johan Adam Boyer and Anna Rosina Hay.
* The consent for daughter Susannah's marriage to Andrew Huling<ref>Rockingham County, Virginia - Self Service SRA, Document Number: 1792-00069, https://rockinghamcountyva-web.tylerhost.net/web/document/DOCCACS-2750374?search=DOCSEARCH133S8. Payment is required to view the image. </ref> is signed by Peter Counts and Christena Counts.
* On 17 Aug 1816, Peter Koontz and wife Christena sold 175 acres to Phillip Koontz<ref>Burnt deed books [transcripts], Rockingham County (Virginia). Clerk of the County Court, Book 3, Page 254 https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSYX-KL88?i=142&cat=386882</ref>.  The deed was partially recovered in transcription, not all of the details are included.  The land is described as being "on Daniel James's branch...being part of two patenxx.. one granted to said Peter Koontz dated 6th May 1794 the other to _________".
* A land survey<ref>Land grant surveys, v. O1, Page 270, Rockingham County (Virginia). County Surveyor, Richmond, Virginia : Filmed by the Virginia State Library, 1983</ref>, dated 7 June 1774, for Peter Koontz and Abraham Boyer provides some association with the Boyer family.

=== Children ===

"Peter Counce" appears in the First Census of the United States<ref>Heads of Families at the First Census of the United States Taken in the Year 1790, Records of the State Enumerations, 1782 to 1785, Virginia, Department of Commerce and Labor, Bureau of the Census, S. N. D. North, Director, Government Printing Office, Washington, 1908, page 76</ref>, enumerated in 1790, showing 11 "White souls".  In the same year, the Tenth Legion Tithables list<ref>Tenth legion tithables (Rockingham Division) Rockingham County, Virginia : tithables for 1792, a list of all the white males above 16 years of age in the county and all the enslaved above 12 in the county in 1792. Luray, Va.: Strickler, 1930, page 36</ref> shows "Counce Peter Sr. & Phil", although the Personal Property Tax for 1790<ref>Personal property tax lists of Rockingham County, 1782-1863, Virginia. Commissioner of the Revenue (Rockingham County), Salt Lake City, Utah : Filmed by the Genealogical Society of Utah, 1955, Film 33507, image 323</ref> shows only 1 "White male above 16".

* Peter Jr. b. about 1765 (see 1790 Rockingham County Personal Property Tax list<ref>Personal property tax lists of Rockingham County, 1782-1863, Personal property tax lists 1782-1796, Virginia. Commissioner of the Revenue (Rockingham County), Salt Lake City, Utah : Filmed by the Genealogical Society of Utah, 1955, Film 33507, image 323, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS4F-FSW2-W?i=322&cat=411278</ref>
* Katherine b. 1766?<ref>Find a Grave, database and images (https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/162461649/katherine-rickabaugh: accessed March 12, 2024), memorial page for Katherine Koontz Rickabaugh (1766–1806), Find a Grave Memorial ID 162461649, citing Wood Cemetery, Raccoon Township, Gallia County, Ohio, USA; Maintained by Gathering Roots (contributor 47213048). No primary source record is cited.</ref><ref>Rockingham County, Virginia - Self Service SRA, Marriage Documents, Document number 1785-00038, https://rockinghamcountyva-web.tylerhost.net/web/document/DOCCACS-2751195?search=DOCSEARCH133S8.  Payment required to view document image.</ref>
* Susannah b. about 1770<ref>Rockingham County, Virginia - Self Service SRA, Document Number: 1792-00069, https://rockinghamcountyva-web.tylerhost.net/web/document/DOCCACS-2750374?search=DOCSEARCH133S8;  The 1 Feb 1792 marriage bond clearly show that Peter is her father, his brother Phillip signed the bond.  Peter and Christena signed the consent with Phillip as witness.</ref><ref>Find a Grave, database and images (https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/67490606/susannah-hulings: accessed March 14, 2024), memorial page for Susannah “Susan” Koontz Hulings (1770–1834), Find a Grave Memorial ID 67490606, citing Hulings Family Cemetery, Lacey Spring, Rockingham County, Virginia, USA; Maintained by Gathering Roots (contributor 47213048).</ref>
* Phillip b. about 1774 (based on being 16 in the Tenth legion tithable list noted above)
* John b. about 1776<ref>Personal property tax lists of Rockingham County, 1782-1863, Personal property tax lists 1797-1815, Film 33508, image 17, see May 22 entries.  Peter Sr. shows 2 tithables over 16 in 1796 in addition to himself, but in 1797 shows no tithable other than himself.</ref><ref>Land tax lists of Rockingham County [Virginia] 1782-1863, Virginia. Commissioner of the Revenue (Rockingham County), Salt Lake City, Utah : Filmed by the Genealogical Society of Utah, 1955, Film 29967, image 707.</ref>
* Daniel b. 1781<ref>Personal property tax lists of Rockingham County, 1782-1863, Personal property tax lists 1797-1815, Film 33508, image 386.  Peter is missing from the 1806 tax list.</ref><ref>Land tax lists of Rockingham County [Virginia] 1782-1863, Virginia. Commissioner of the Revenue (Rockingham County), Salt Lake City, Utah : Filmed by the Genealogical Society of Utah, 1955, Film 29967, image 707</ref><ref>The National Archives in Washington D.C.; Record Group: Records of the Bureau of the Census; Record Group Number: 29; Series Number: M653; Residence Date: 1860; Home in 1860: Range, Madison, Ohio; Roll: M653_1004; Page: 363; Family History Library Film: 805004</ref>
* Adam b. about 1786<ref>Personal property tax lists of Rockingham County, 1782-1863, Personal property tax lists 1797-1815, Film 33508, image 434</ref><ref>Land tax lists of Rockingham County [Virginia] 1782-1863, Virginia. Commissioner of the Revenue (Rockingham County), Salt Lake City, Utah : Filmed by the Genealogical Society of Utah, 1955, Film 29967, image 707</ref>

=== Death ===

Peter died testate in 1835, probably in October, but his will has not survived.  An Executor Bond 16 Nov 1835<ref>Executors' bonds, 1778-1854, Executors bonds book, v. 1, 1778-1815 -- Executors bonds book, v. 2, 1815-1822 -- Executors bonds book, v. 3, 1823-1854., Film 2079963, image 1233.  &#91The document in this image looks crossed-out and unsigned, and is possibly a duplicate.  Signed document reference TBD.&#93</ref> names Isaac Thomas as Peter Koontz's executor, signed by Isaac Thomas, Strawther Thomas, Henry Philips and Peter P. Koontz.  The 1836 Land Tax for Rockingham County shows Peter's land was distributed as follows<ref>Land tax lists of Rockingham County [Virginia] 1782-1863, Virginia. Commissioner of the Revenue (Rockingham County), Salt Lake City, Utah : Filmed by the Genealogical Society of Utah, 1955, Land tax lists, 1830-1836, Film 29968, image 707</ref>:
* Adam, Daniel, "&c" Koontz of Tennessee own 2/3 of the 225 acres (142 3/4) on James Branch, and the 111 1/2 acres on Smiths Creek.
* John Koontz owns 1/3 of the 225 acres (82 1/4) on James Branch.

=== Regarding "Peter Dietrich Koontz" ===
In his comprehensive ''Ancestry and Descendants of the Nassau-Siegen Immigrants to Virginia, 1714-1750''<ref>Ancestry and Descendants of the Nassau-Siegen Immigrants to Virginia, 1714-1750, Dr. Benjamin C. Holtzclaw (The Germanna Foundation: The Memorial Foundation of the Germanna Colonies in Virginia, Inc.) 1964, pages 125ff</ref> Dr. Benjamin C. Holtzclaw made the following observations:
# "Teterick and John Counts were added to the tithables of Augusta Co. Nov. 21 1760"
# "Adam Reder deeded Teter Counts 186 acres in Augusta Co. Aug. 4, 1761"
# "John Alderson and Mary his wife deed Peter Couns 163 acres Aug. 19, 1777"
From this, Dr. Holtzclaw continues with the tacit assumption that Teterick, Teter and Peter are the same person, and listing people that "were perhaps the children of Peter or Dietrich Koontz".

Subsequent study of deeds related to these lands, and of the tax lists, demonstrates that  Teter/Teterick Counts and Peter Couns are two different individuals, and there are no primary sources that support someone named "Peter Dietrich Koontz" in the context of this location and time period:
* Both names, "Teter ''Couts''" and "Peter Counts", are found separately in tax lists.
* Teter Couts' wife's name is Susannah in a 1781 deed selling land on Wallings Creek.
* Peter Counts' wife's name is Christena in deeds selling land on Daniel James Branch, and as shown above, she was named as his wife in a 1785 marriage consent for daughter Susannah.

==== Augusta County List of tithables, 1777-1778 ====

* "Teter ''Couts''" appears in Jonah Davidson's Tithable list<ref>Augusta County List of tithables, 1777-1778, Augusta County (Virginia). County Clerk</ref>, having 2 Tithables and 165 acres.
* "Peter ''Counts''" listed along with "Phillip Counts" in Daniel Smith's Tithable list<ref>List of tithables, 1777-1778</ref>
* "Peter ''Counts''" listed in Abraham Smith's Tithable list<ref>Augusta County List of tithables, 1777-1778</ref>.

==== "Adam Reder deeded Teter Counts 186 acres in Augusta Co. Aug. 4, 1761" ====
On 4 Aug 1761 a deed was signed between "Adam Reder of the one part and Teter Couts of the other part both of Augusta Coty"<ref>Augusta County Deed Book 12, Page 445</ref>.  The document has a marginal note "Examined & delivered to ''Teter Couts'' Feb. 7 1779".  The deed conveys 186 "in Acres of Land" to Teter, "being in Augusta County on a branch of the North River of Shanandou called  Wallings Creek", "running with the several courses of James Gills old Patten..."

From the index to deeds<ref>General index to deeds, grantors and grantees, Vol. 4, 1778-1863, Rockingham County (Virginia). Clerk of the County Court, Salt Lake City, Utah : Filmed by the Genealogical Society of Utah, 1952, film 33454</ref> two deeds were signed by Teterick, one in August 1781 and the other in March, and Conrad Kester is the grantee in both.  Nothing of the August 1781 deed survived, and attempts to research subsequent land transactions from Conrad Kester to others has not been fruitful.

The 20 Mar 1781 deed<ref>Burnt deed book, v. 0, 1778-1793, Rockingham County (Virginia). Clerk of the County Court, Salt Lake City, Utah : Filmed by the Genealogical Society of Utah, 1952, page 117-118</ref> "between Deter Kouts and Susannah his wife of the County of Rockingham and in the State of Virginia of the one part and Conrad Kester of the other part and in the county aforesaid..." deeds this land "containing one hundred and eighty-six acres lying and being in county aforesaid on a branch of the north river Shannando called Wallings Creek first granted to James Gill by Patent bearing thirtieth Day of June 1743".  In the transcription of this deed, Deter's name is sometimes written "Peter", and the signature (as transcribed) is "Peter Koutz".  Nothing of the original deed survived, so any lapses in the transcription cannot be detected.  No record could be found for Teter's marriage to Susannah.

==== "John Alderson and Mary his wife deed Peter Couns 163 acres Aug. 19, 1777" ====
"Peter Couns" bought 163 acres in Augusta County from John Alderson in 1777"<ref>Holtzclaw, "Nassau-Siegen Immigrants", 125</ref>.  The indenture<ref>Augusta County Deed Book 22, page 82, Augusta County (Virginia) County Clerk</ref> shows the date as 19 Aug 1777, and Alderson's land is "on Daniel James's branch" toward "James Lockeys land", and crosses James Branch south.  A year later the land is within the newly formed Rockingham County.

Augusta County Order Book 16, page 209:  "Deeds of lease and release from John Alderson and Mary his wife to Peter Couns the said wife being first prively examined as the law directs."<ref>"Deeds of lease and release": see Every man his own lawyer: or, A summary of the laws of England, Giles Jacob, Thomas Gage, Viscount Gage, 1768, https://quod.lib.umich.edu/e/evans/N08551.0001.001/1:6.2?rgn=div2;view=fulltext, section marked "Page 115"</ref>.

The lands along the Daniel James branch were owned by Koontz family members over several decades, and were sold, inherited and consolidated over time, obfuscating any reference back to the Alderson land.

However, on 17 Aug 1816, Peter Koontz and wife Christena sold 175 acres to Phillip Koontz<ref>Burnt deed books [transcripts], Rockingham County (Virginia). Clerk of the County Court, Book 3, Page 254 https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSYX-KL88?i=142&cat=386882</ref>.  The deed was partially recovered in transcription, but with some pertinent details missing.  The land is described as being "on Daniel James's branch...being part of two patenxx.. one granted to said Peter Koontz dated 6th May 1794 the other to _________".  

The referenced 6 May 1794 land grant was to "Peter Countz" for 103 acres<ref>Grants, 1779-1921 ; index, land grants, bks. 74-124, ca. 1825-1921, Virginia. Land Office, Richmond, Virginia : Filmed by the Virginia State Library, 1949, Grants, v. 32, 1794-1795, page 127 (image 144), https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-C3Q1-694N-J?i=143&cat=415819</ref>.  Similar to the description of John Alderson's land, the grant is "corner to James and Thomas Lockey's land".

=== Siblings and Children ===
Marie Arrington<ref>Mountain Valley People: A Historical Sketch of a Section Of Rockingham County Virginia And It's People, Mary Marie Koontz Arrington (Gateway Press, Inc., Baltimore) 1982, Page 79</ref>, structures the family tree:  "PETER, SR., is thought to have the following children:".  This ensuing list includes "Phillip B." born "ca. 1752-55", "Jacob" born "ca. 1782" ("returned to Md. and later went to Ky. and finally to Ohio"), Martin b. ____, Mary "mar. Jacob Bargle", and Catharine "mar. Adam Rickabaugh 1785".

No source material is provided, and aside from Catherine, no primary source confirms that these are Peter Sr's children instead of being his siblings.  Jacob's migration is confirmed in primary sources, but a 1782 birth year is not.

=== Rockingham County Personal Property Tax ===
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS79-L198?i=251&cat=411278 1782 William MacDowell's List]
** Phillip Countz: 1 white tithable, 4 horses, 7 cattle
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS79-LB1J?i=287&cat=411278 1783 William MacDowell's List]
** Philip Counce:  1 white tithable, 4 horses, 8 cattle 
** [[Koontz-229.wikitext|Peter Counce]]:  1 white tithable, 6 horses, 1 cattle
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS79-L1NP?i=303&cat=411278 1784 William MacDowell's List] (Capt. James Huling's Company)
** Peter Counce: 1 white tithable, 5 horses, 12 cattle 
** Philip Counce: 1 white tithabLe, 4 horse, 4 cattle
* 1785 William MacDowell's List, Capt Harrison's Compnay
** [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS79-LBYZ?i=320&cat=411278 Philip Counce]: 1 white tithable, 6 horse, 6 cattle
** [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS79-L1Q6?i=319&cat=411278 Peter Counce]: 1 white tithable, 5 horses, 12 cattle 
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS79-LBK8?i=336&cat=411278 1786 Andrew Rader's, Capt Lair's Company]
** Pet. Counts: 2 white tithables, 5 horses, 11 cattle
** Phillip Counts:  1 white tithable, 6 horses, 3 cattle
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS79-LBNM?i=382&cat=411278 1787]  (First alphabetical list)
** Martin Counce:  1 white tithable, 2 horses, 4 cattle
** Peter Counce:  2 white tithables (1 age 16-20), 5 horses, 13 cattle
** Phillip Counce: 2 white tithables (1 age 16-20), 5 horses, 6 cattle
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS79-LB4G?i=451&cat=411278 1788] (cattle not counted)
** Peter Counce:  2 white tithables, 5 horses
** Martin Counce:  1 white tithable, 2 horses
** Phillip Counce: 2 white tithables, 5 horses
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS79-LYHH?i=503&cat=411278 1789]
** Martin Counce:  1 white tithable, 2 horses
** Phillip Counce: 2 white tithables, 5 horses
** Peter Counce:  2 white tithables, 6 horses
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS79-LYJY?i=551&cat=411278 1790]
** [[Koontz-1153.wikitext|Peter Counce Jr]]: 1 white tithable, 2 horses
** Martin Counce: 1 white tithable, 3 horses
** Phillip Counce: 2 white tithables, 5 horses
** Peter Counce Sen:  1 white tithables, 6 horses
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS79-LYHT?i=578&cat=411278 1791]
** Peter Counce Sen:  1 white tithables, 6 horses
** Peter Counce: 1 white tithable, 2 horses
** Phillip Counce: 1 white tithables, 5 horses
** Martin Counce: 1 white tithable, 4 horses
** John Counce: 1 white tithable, 2 horses
*** Note:  John is not grouped with the others, but his entry into the list coincides with a decrement in Phillip's tithable count.  John's tithable count increases in 1792, and along with being separate from the group, his relationship to Phillip is unclear.
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS79-LYSY?i=627&cat=411278 1792]
** Peter Counce: 1 white tithable, 1 horse
** Martin Counce: 1 white tithable, 4 horses
** Peter Counce Sen:  2 white tithables, 7 horses
** Phillip Counce: 1 white tithables, 3 horses
** John Counce: 2 white tithables, 2 horses
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS79-LTDG?i=702&cat=411278 1793]
** Martin Counce: 1 white tithable, 4 horses
** Phillip Counce: 1 white tithables, 3 horses
** Peter Counce [Sen]:  2 white tithables, 7 horses
** John Counce: 2 white tithables, 2 horses, 1 slave
** <s>Peter Counce</s>
*** [[Koontz-1153.wikitext|"Peter Kunce"]] appeared in the Augusta, Virginia personal property tax list in 1793.  
*** He married Elizabeth Ann Jones, daughter of Enos Jones, in Augusta County, Virginia 2 Dec 1793
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS79-L994-W?i=728&cat=411278 1794]
** Phillip Counce: 2 white tithables, 3 horses
** Peter Counce:  2 white tithables, 7 horses
** Phillip Counce: 1 white tithable
** Martin Counce: 1 white tithable, 4 horses
** John Counce: 1 white tithables, 2 horses
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSPG-K3PL-R?i=23&cat=411278 1795]
** Martin Counce: 2 white tithables, 4 horses
** Peter Counce:  3 white tithables, 7 horses
** Phillip Counce: 1 white tithable, 1 horse
** Phillip Counce Sen: 2 white tithables, 3 horses
** [[Koontz-1153.wikitext|Peter Counce]]:  1 white tithable
*** Absent from the Augusta County personal property tax list in 1795
** John Counce: 1 white tithables, 2 horses
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSPG-K3P6-6?i=114&cat=411278 1796]
** Peter Countz:  3 white tithables, 5 horses
** Martin Countz: 1 white tithables, 3 horses
** Phillip Counts [Sen]: 2 white tithables, 2 horses
** Peter Countz:  1 white tithable
** <s>Phillip Counce</s>
** John Countz: 1 white tithables, 1 horse
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSPG-K3P6-P?i=159&cat=411278 1797]
** John Koontz: 2 white tithables, 1 horse
** Martin Koontz: 1 white tithables, 3 horses
** [https://www.wikitree.com/wiki/Koontz-1153 Peter Koontz]:  1 white tithable
** Peter Koontz:  1 white tithables, 6 horses
** Jos. Koontz:  1 white tithable, 1 horse
** Phillip Koonts [Sen]: 1 white tithable, 1 horses
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSPG-K3PZ-S?i=198&cat=411278 1798]
** Peter Koontz:  2 white tithables, 6 horses
** Peter Koontz:  1 white tithable
** John Koontz: 1 white tithables, 1 horse
** Martin Koontz: 1 white tithables, 3 horses
** Jos. Koontz:  1 white tithable, 1 horse
** Phillip Koontz: 1 white tithable, 1 horse
** Phillip Koontz: 2 white tithables, 2 horses
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSPG-K3P4-7?i=293&cat=411278 1799]
** John Kunns: 2 white tithables, 2 horse
** Peter Kuhns: 1 white tithable
** Martin Koontz: 1 white tithables, 3 horses
** Peter Koontz:  2 white tithables, 7 horses
** Phillip Koontz: 2 white tithables, 2 horses
** Phillip Koontz junr.: 1 white tithable, 2 horses
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSPG-K3PC-Z?i=312&cat=411278 1800]
** Peter Koonts (Ke. Town): 1 tithable
** Jno. Koonts (Do.):  2 tithable, 2 horses
** Phillip Koontz junr.: 1 white tithable, 1 horse
** Martin Koontz: 1 white tithables, 2 horses
** John Koontz:  1 white tithable
** Philip Koontz Sr.:  1 white tithable, 3 horses
** Peter Koontz:  1 white tithable, 8 horses
** John Koontz (son of Peter):  1 tithable
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSPG-K3GY-Y?i=370&cat=411278 1801]
** Philip Koontz Sr.:  2&#91?&#93 white tithable, 3 horses
** Peter Koontz:  1 white tithable, 7 horses
** Phillip Koontz Son of Peter: 1 white tithable, 1 horse
** Martain Koontz: 1 white tithables, 4 horses
** John Koonts Tanner:  2 tithables, 2 horses
** Peter Koonts (Keezel Town): 1 tithable
** <s>John Koontz</s> &#91see 1802. "Runaway" is possibly this John&#93
** <s>John Koontz (son of Peter)</s> &#91see 1802.  Possibly this John is just after Peter.&#93
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSPG-K3GY-3?i=407&cat=411278 1802]
** Martin Koontz (Law man): 1 white tithables, 4 horses
** Phillip Koontz:  1 white tithable, 2 horses, 1 Stud $1.00
** Peter Koontz:  2 white tithable, 5 horses
** John Koontz [Jun]:  1 tithable, 1 horse
** Philip Koontz Senr:  2 white tithable, 1 horse
** John Koontz (The Runaway&#91?&#93): 1 tithable, 1 horse
** Peter Koontz (Kesletown): 2 tithables
** John Koontz Kesletown: 1 tithable, 1 horse
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSPG-K3GR-R?i=424&cat=411278 1803]
** John Koonts: 1 tithable, 3 horses
** Philip Koontz Senr:  2 white tithable, 2 horses
** John Koontz tanner at Keseltown<ref>Always appears near Peter Jr. "(hatter Keseltown)".  It seems possible that he could have a business relationship with a "hatter", but any family relationship is undetermined. Actively researching.</ref>: 1 tithable, 1 horse
** Martin Koontz: 1 white tithables, 4 horses
** Phillip Koontz:  1 white tithable, 2 horses
** Peter Koontz:  2 white tithable, 5 horses
** Peter Koonz (hatter Keseltown):  2 tithables
** <s>John Koontz</s> &#91possibly the 1802 "Runaway"?&#93
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSPG-K3GP-M?i=461&cat=411278 1804]
** Phillip Koontz:  1 white tithable, 3 horses
** George Kunts:  1 white tithable, 1 horse
** John Koontz Jun: 1 white tithable, 2 horses
** Martin Koontz (Law man): 1 white tithables, 4 horses
** Peter Kontz Sen:  1 white tithable, 4 horses
** Phillip Koontz:  1 white tithable, 2 horses
** John Kuns:  1 white tithable
** <s>Peter Koontz (hatter Keseltown)</s> (Is present in Land Taxi with 3 lots and 1 acre.  Listed again in 1806)
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSPG-K35Z-V?i=517&cat=411278 1805]
** Peter Kontz [Sen]:  1 white tithable, 5 horses
** John Koontz &#91Jun?&#93: 1 white tithable, 1 horses
** Philip Koontz:  1 white tithable, 3 horses
** John Koontz Mesl&#91?&#93<ref>Enumerator's notation is uncertain.  This John Koontz may be the Col. John Koontz in the War of 1812, 4th Regiment Virginia.  He does not appear to be a relative of the other Koontzes.</ref>:  1 tithable, 2 blacks above 16, 5 horses
** Widow Koontz &#91of Martin&#93: 0 tithable, 1 black above 16, 4 horses
** John Koontz K.T.: 2 tithables, 4 horses
** <s>George Kunts</s>
** <s>Phillip Koontz</s>
** <s>Peter Koontz (hatter Keseltown)</s> (Is present in Land Tax with 2 lots and 2 acres. Listed again in 1806)
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSPG-K35M-3?i=587&cat=411278 1807]
** John Koontz Harrisonburg:  2 tithable, 3 blacks above 16, 6 horses
** John Koontz Kesletown: 2 tithables, 2 blacks above 16, 4 horses
** Peter Koontz:  1 tithables, 2 horses
** Christiana Koontz (widow) of Martin: 0 tithable, 1 horse
** Philip Koontz Jnr:  1 white tithable, 2 horses
** John Koontz (Smith Creek):  1 tithable, 3 horses
** Peter Koontz:  1 tithable, 6 horses
** Adam Koontz: 1 tithable, 2 horses
** Philip Koontz Snr:  2 white tithable, 4 horses
* 1808 - No records
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSPG-K3PR-7?i=608&cat=411278 1809]
** John Koontz Keisle town: 2 tithables, 1 black above 16, 4 horses
** Peter Koontz K. Town: 1 tithable, 2 horses
** Christiana Koontz widow: 0 tithable, 2 horses
** Adam Koontz: 1 tithable, 2 horses
** Peter Koontz Snr:  1 tithable 4 horses
** John Koontz Junr S Creek:  1 tithable, 2 horses
** Phillip Koontz Junr:  1 tithable, 2 horses
** John Koontz Merchant:  2 tithable, 3 blacks above 16, 7 horses
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSPG-K3P5-7?i=645&cat=411278 1810]
** John Koontz Majr:  2 tithable, 5 blacks above 16, 6 horses
** Adam Koontz: 1 tithable, 3 horses
** Phillip Koontz Jnr:  1 white tithable, 2 horses
** Peter Koontz Sen:  1 tithable, 4 horses
** John Koontz: 1 tithable, 2 horses &#91Smith Creek, "Junior"&#93
** Phillip Koontz Sen:  1 tithable, 2 horses
** John Koontz (K. Town): 2 tithables, 4 horses
** Peter Koontz (Do.): 1 tithable, 3 horses
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSPG-K3PR-G?i=696&cat=411278 1811]
** John Koontz (Col:  2 tithable, 3 blacks above 16, 10 horses
** Christena Koontz widow: 0 tithables
** Peter Koontz (K.T.: 2 tithables
** John Koontz: 2 tithables, 1 black above 16
** Philip Koontz Jur:  1 tithable, 3 horses
** Adam Koontz:  1 tithable, 4 horses
** John Koontz:  1 tithable, 3 horses &#91Smith Creek, "Junior"&#93
** Peter Koontz: 1 tithable, 4 horses
** Philip Koontz Sen: 1 tithable, 2 horses
** [https://www.wikitree.com/wiki/Koontz-472 Jacob Koontz] &#91Son of Phillip Koontz&#93:  1 tithable, 1 horse 
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSPG-K3PY-8?i=711&cat=411278 1812]
** Jacob Koontz H.R.:  1 tithable
** John Koontz: 1 tithable, 3 horses &#91Smith Creek, "Junior"&#93
** Philip Koontz: 0 tithable, 3 horses
** Philip Kontz Sen:  1 tithable, 3 horses
** Peter Koontz: 1 tithable, 5 horses
** Jacob Koontz:  1 tithable, 1 horse
** Christena Koontz:  1 horse
** John Koontz (Colonel:  1 tithable, 2 enslaved above 16, 1 enslaved between 12 & 16, 8 horses
** John Koontz KT: 1 tithables, 1 enslaved above 16, 7 horses
** Peter Koontz Ditto: 2 tithables, 2 horses
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSPG-K3PG-B?i=762&cat=411278 1813]
** Peter Koontz KT: 2 tithables, 2 horses
** John Koontz KT: 1 tithables, 1 enslaved above 16, 6 horses
** Jacob Koontz:  1 tithable, 1 horse
** John Koontz (Col):  2 tithable, 2 enslaved above 16, 1 enslaved between 12 & 16, 10 horses
** Philip Koontz Jun: 2 horses
** Christena Koontz:  1 horse
** Peter Koontz Sen: 1 tithable, 5 horses
** Philip Koontz Sen:  1 tithable, 3 horses
** <s>John Koontz</s> &#91Smith Creek, "Junior"&#93
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-C37H-WD3Y?i=47&cat=411278 1814]
** Peter Koontz: 3 tithables, 2 horses
** Christena Koontz:  1 horse
** John Koontz S.C.: 1 tithable, 3 horses
** Peter Koontz [Sen]: 1 tithable, 4 horses
** Philip Koontz Jun: 1 tithable, 2 horses
** Philip Koontz Sen:  1 tithable, 2 horses
** John Koontz (Col):  2 tithable, 2 enslaved above 16, 1 enslaved between 12 & 16, 14 horses
** John Koontz K Town: 1 tithables, 7 horses
** <s>Jacob Koontz</s>
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-C37H-W8BY?i=111&cat=411278 1815]
** John Koontz Tanner:  2 tithables, 7 horses, 19 cattle
** Peter Koontz:  3 tithables, 2 horses, 2 cattle
** Christina Koontz:  1 horse, 3 cattle
** Peter Koontz [Sen]: 1 tithable, 4 horses, 10 cattle
** Philip Koontz Jur: - tithable, 1 enslaved above 16, 3 horses, 18 cattle
** Philip Koontz Ser:  1 tithable, 2 horses, 6 cattle
** John Koontz Colo.:  3 tithable, 1 enslaved above 12, 3 enslaved above 16, 14 horses, 41 cattle
** <s>John Koontz S.C.</s>
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-C37H-WD6G?i=146&cat=411278 1816 - Northwest District]
** John Koontz Smiths Creek: 1 tithable, 3 horses
** Christina Koontz:  1 horse
** Peter Koontz [Sen]: 1 tithable, 4 horses
** Philip Koontz Jr: - tithable, 3 horses
** Philip Koontz Ser:  1 tithable, 2 horses
** John Koontz Colo.:  3 tithable, 2 enslaved above 12, 5 enslaved above 16, 13 horses
** <s>John Koontz Tanner</s>
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-C37H-WCT5?i=180&cat=411278 1816 - Southeast District]
** Peter Koontz [Jr]<ref>The reason for Peter's being moved to a different Personal Property Tax district is undetermined.  Land Tax District did not change.</ref>:  3 tithables, 3 horses.  Possibly related facts:
*** Jacob Swallow died around this time.  It is somewhat doubtful that Peter is the "Peter Kountz" listed in Jacob Swallow's will<ref>Will books, v. 12 1814-1819, Page 287, Virginia. County Court (Augusta County), (Salt Lake City, Utah : Filmed by the Genealogical Society of Utah, 1952) https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-C9TH-5XNR?i=642&cat=279443</ref>, but the will is fairly enigmatic and this has not been completely ruled out.
*** Living near Peter Keller, whose mother Sarah Koontz was listed in Jacob Swallow's will.  Father is Lewis Keller Sr.  Peter Keller has land on "Curtsies Creek".  Lewis Keller has land on Faughts Branch.
*** Conrad Cline is in the Southeast District, and has land on Faughts Branch.
*** Peter will return to the Northwest District list in 1822.
*** Peter's son Jacob Koontz will marry Nancy Cline in 1822.
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-C37H-WZDB?i=206&cat=411278 1817 - Northwest District]
** John Koontz Tanner:  4<ref>Division of land at John Koontz' death, Burnt deed book, v. 19, 1846-1847, page 311, identifies only 2 sons, Peter and John</ref> tithables, 5 horses
** Christina Koontz:  1 horse
** John Koontz &#91Smiths Creek&#93: 1 tithable, 5 horses
** Peter Koontz [Sen]: 1 tithable, 5 horses
** Philip Koontz Jr: 1 tithable, 3 horses
** Philip Koontz Sr:  1 tithable, 2 horses
** John Koontz Col.:  3 tithable, 6 enslaved above 16, 13 horses
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-C37H-W8X3?i=227&cat=411278 1817 - Southeast District]
** Peter Koontz [Jr]<ref>In 1816 and 1817 property tax lists, Peter Jr is listed near "Peter Keller", whose mother is Sarah Koontz and was listed in Jacob Swallow's will</ref>:  3 tithables, 4 horses
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-C37H-W6HN?i=269&cat=411278 1818 - Northwest District]
** Maria Koontz: 1 slave
** John Koontz Tanner:  4 tithables, 5 horses
** Christina Koontz:  2 horses
** John Koontz &#91Smiths Creek&#93: 1 tithable, 5 horses
** Peter Koontz [Sen]: 1 tithable, 1 enslaved, 4 horses
** Philip Koontz Jr: 1 tithable, 3 horses
** Philip Koontz Sr:  1 tithable, 2 horses
** John Koontz Col.:  3 tithable, 3 enslaved above 16, 11 horses
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-C37H-WD2C?i=247&cat=411278 1818 - Southeast District]
** Peter Koontz [Jr]:  3 tithables, 3 horses
*** Enumerated same day as Peter Keller and John Kline "of Conrad".
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-C37H-WZYY?i=293&cat=411278 1819 - Northwest District]
** John Koontz Col.:  5 tithable, 3 enslaved above 16, 6 horses
** Christina Koontz:  1 horse
** Peter Koontz [Sen]: 2 tithables, 1 enslaved, 3 horses
** Philip Koontz Jr:  1 tithable, 2 horses
** Philip Koontz: 1 tithable, 3 horses
** John Koontz &#91Smiths Creek&#93: 1 tithable, 3 horses
** <s>John Koontz Tanner</s>
** <s>Maria Koontz</s>
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-C37H-WDCL?i=315&cat=411278 1819 - Southeast District]
** Peter Koontz [Jr]:  3 tithables, 3 horses
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-C37H-WDCN?i=364&cat=411278 1820 - Northwest District]
** John Koontz Tanner:  2 tithables, 1 enslaved, 6 horses
** John Koontz [Jr?]:  1 tithable
** John Koontz S Cr: 1 tithable, 4 horses
** Christina Koontz:  1 horse
** Peter Koontz [Sen]: 1 tithable, 1 enslaved, 3 horses
** Philip Koontz: 1 tithable, 4 horses
** Philip Koontz Sr: 1 tithable, 1 horse
** John Koontz Col.:  2 tithable, 3 enslaved, 6 horses
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-C37H-W8LP?i=339&cat=411278 1820 - Southeast District]
** Peter Koontz [Jr]:  3 tithables, 3 horses
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-C37H-WZSG?i=389&cat=411278 1821 - Northwest District] &#91Columns for Head of household's name, enslaved above 12, horses, and the different types of carriages and wagons&#93
** John Kunns 2 enslaved, 7 horses
** Christina Koontz:  1 horse
** Peter Koontz [Sen]: 1 enslaved, 3 horses
** Philip Koontz Jr: 4 horses
** John Koontz (S. Cr: 4 horses
** Philip Koontz [Sr]: 1 horse
** John Koontz Col:  3 enslaved, 2 horses
** <s>John Koontz [Jr?]</s>
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-C37H-WDN9?i=417&cat=411278 1821 - Southeast District] &#91Columns for Head of household's name, enslaved above 12, horses, and the different types of carriages and wagons&#93
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-C37H-WZL1?i=469&cat=411278 1822 - Northwest District] 
** John Koontz (tanner):  2 levies, 2 enslaved, 8 horses
** Peter Koontz [Jr]:  3 levies, 2 horses
** Philip Koontz Jr: 2 levies, 3 horses
** John Koontz &#91Smiths Creek&#93: 1 levy, 3 horses
** Peter Koontz [Sen]: 2 levies, 1 enslaved, 4 horses
** Philip Koontz Sr: 2 levies, 1 horse
** John Koontz Col.:  4 tithable, 3 enslaved, 7 horses
** <s>Christina Koontz</s>
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-C37H-W8J5?i=517&cat=411278 1823] &#91Columns for Head of household's name, enslaved above 12, horses, and the different types of carriages and wagons&#93
** John Koontz (Keezletown):  2 enslaved, 10 horses
** Peter Koontz [Jr] (same [Keezletown]):  1 horse
** Christiana Koontz:  1 horse
** Philip Koontz Jr: 4 horses
** John Koontz &#91Smiths Creek&#93: 4 horses
** Peter Koontz [Sen]: 1 enslaved, 3 horses
** Philip Koontz Sr: 1 horse
** John Koontz Col.:  3 enslaved, 8 horses
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-C37H-WZ4V?i=543&cat=411278 1824]
** Peter Koontz [Jr] (K T):  1 tithable, 1 horse
** John Koontz (K T):  6 tithables, 3 enslaved, 11 horses
** Enos Koontz [of Peter Koontz Jr]:  1 tithable
** Christiana Koontz:  1 horse
** Peter Koontz [Sen]: 1 tithable, 1 enslaved, 4 horses
** Philip Koontz Sr: 1 tithable, 1 horse
** John Koontz &#91Smiths Creek&#93: 1 tithable, 4 horses
** Philip Koontz: 3 tithables, 1 enslaved, 5 horses
** John Koontz Col.:  7 tithables, 1 enslaved over 12, 4 enslaved over 16, 7 horses
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-C37H-WD9L?i=597&cat=411278 1825 - Southeast District] &#91Columns for Head of household's name, enslaved above 12, horses, and the different types of carriages and wagons&#93
** John Koontz [of Peter Koontz Jr?]
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-C37H-W8LQ?i=623&cat=411278 1825 - Northwest District] &#91Columns for Head of household's name, enslaved above 12, horses, and the different types of carriages and wagons&#93
** John Koontz [Tanner]:  2 enslaved, 9 horses
** Peter Koontz [Jr] (K T):  1 horse
** Peter Koontz [Sen]: 1 enslaved, 4 horses
** John Koontz &#91Smiths Creek&#93: 1 enslaved, 2 horses
** Philip Koontz Sr: 1 enslaved, 5 horses
** Philip Koontz: 1 enslaved, 1 horse
** John Koontz Col.: 3 enslaved over 16, 5 horses
** <s>Enos Koontz</s>
** <s>Christiana Koontz</s>
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-C37H-WD2J?i=650&cat=411278 1826 - Northwest District] &#91Columns for Head of household's name, enslaved above 12, horses, and the different types of carriages and wagons&#93
** John Kunes [Tanner]:  2 enslaved, 12 horses
** Peter Kunes [Jr] (K T):  1 horse
** Maria G. Koontz<ref>Maria G. Koontz is from a different family</ref>: 1 enslaved
** Estate of Philip Koontz:  1 enslaved, 3 horses
** Mary Koontz &#91Widow of Philip "Jr"?&#93:  1 enslaved, 1 horse
** Peter Koontz Junr<ref>Son of John Koontz "Tanner"</ref>: 1 horse
** Philip Koontz Senr: 1 horse
** John Koontz Col.: 3 enslaved over 16, 5 horses
** John Koontz P[eak] M[mountain]:  3 horses
** Peter Koontz Senr:  2 enslaved, 4 horses
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-C37H-W8YM?i=681&cat=411278 1826 - Southeast District]
** Jacob Koonts<ref>Enumerated 8 Mar along with Lewis Keller.  Conrad Kline enumerated 28 Feb.</ref>:  1 horse
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-C37H-W8W1?i=736&cat=411278 1827 - Northwest District]
** John Koontz son of Peter:  3 horses
** John Koontz (Tanner):  2 enslaved, 12 horses
** Peter Koontz Sen:  1 enslaved, 3 horses
** Peter Koontz Jun &#91son of John Koontz (Tanner)&#93:  2 enslaved, 2 horses
** Mary Koontz:  1 horse
** Philip Koontz Sen:  1 horse
** John Koontz Col.: 3 enslaved, 6 horses
** Miss Maria G Koontz:  1 enslaved
** <s>Peter Koontz [Jr]</s>
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-C37H-WZ6L?i=707&cat=411278 1827 - Southeast District]
** <s>Jacob Koontz</s><ref>Lewis Keller is also missing.</ref>


 == Sources ==
<references />