== Biography ==
* Name:  Philip Koontz
* Birth:  1745<ref>Year: 1840; Census Place: Rockingham, Virginia; Roll: 577; Page: 69; Family History Library Film: 0029692</ref> or 1752<ref>Revolutionary War Pension and Bounty-Land Warrant Application Files (NARA microfilm publication M804, 2,670 rolls). Records of the Department of Veterans Affairs, Record Group 15. National Archives, Washington, D.C.</ref> (''see [[#birth|Birth]]'')
* Marriage (1): Barbara Bly (or Blei) m. 1774, Shenandoah County<ref>Record of his marriage to "Barbara Blei" is found in notes of Rev. Peter Muhlenberg, who was serving as pastor in Woodstock, Virginia, from 1773-1776, see blurry image https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSKJ-QQS1-T?i=18&cat=1173031, top of right page</ref>
* Marriage (2): Rebecca "Peggy" Bond m. 1 Dec 1800, Shenandoah County<ref>"Virginia, County Marriage Records, 1771-1989," database with images, FamilySearch (https://familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-C91F-Y9F9-W?cc=2134304 : 14 November 2021), > image 1 of 1; Accomat county court clerk offices, Virginia.</ref>.  "Peggy" is the name in the marriage bond.
* Death:  Abt 1843 (''see [[#land-tax|Land Tax]]'')

=== Children ===
* Elizabeth m. Phillip Koontz "Jr" 15 February 1799. (Phillip Jr is son of Peter Koontz Sr.)
* John b. Abt. 1770 (Appears separately in the 1791 Rockingham PP Tax)
* Jacob b. Abt. 1790 [1811 Rockingham PP Tax]

== Research Notes ==

=== Birth ===

Phillip's Revolutionary War pension application<ref>Ancestry.com. U.S., Revolutionary War Pension and Bounty-Land Warrant Application Files, 1800-1900 [database on-line]. Provo, UT, USA: Ancestry.com Operations, Inc., 2010.  Original data:Revolutionary War Pension and Bounty-Land Warrant Application Files (NARA microfilm publication M804, 2,670 rolls). Records of the Department of Veterans Affairs, Record Group 15. National Archives, Washington, D.C.</ref> (Virginia 12.473) provides the following information:

:''He was born in the state of Maryland he cannot say positively what year, but believes his age to be about eighty, he has no record of his age.  He removed to Virginia when he was about nineteen years of age, and lived on the South Branch about two years, and then removed to Rockingham County, where he has resided since.

In a deposition 13 Nov 1802 for Chancery Cause Woodley vs March, Phillip offered that he was 50 years old.  Both this and the pension application put his birth year at 1752.  In the 1830 census, Phillip is in the "70 to 80" age bracket, keeping is birth year about 1752.  In a census of veterans in 1841, however, he offered that he was 95 years old, suggesting that the dates could be about 5 or 6 years earlier, 1746.

If Phillip was born nearer 1746, then:
* Moved to Virginia on the South Branch in 1765
* Moved to Rockingham in 1767

If Phillip was born nearer to 1752, then:
* Moved for Virginia on the South Branch in 1771
* Move to Rockingham in 1773

=== Marriage ===

An 1844 Chancery cause (see Chancery Record below) brought by Eli, Phillip's administrator (and grandson), Phillip's wife's name was Rebecca.  Her name in the marriage bond is "Peggy Bond".  "Margaret" was her mother's name.

=== Chancery Record for ADMR OF Phillip Koontz SR vs. Peter Derrow ETC ===

The Chancery Record 1844-005<ref>Virginia Memory, Chancery Record Index, Rockingham County, original case number 008, https://www.lva.virginia.gov/chancery/case_detail.asp?CFN=165-1844-005</ref> contains a bill dated 22 Feb 1844.  The bill is complaining that the money due from a "suit at Law in the circuit[?] Superior court of law and chancery for the county of Rockingham" has not been recovered.

* Eli [H] Koontz is administrator for Phillip Koontz Senr. and represents the estate as the plaintiff.
* The bill describes a land transaction where "said [Phillip] Koontz [Senr] together with his wife Rebecca Koontz...sold and conveyed" some land to John Wists for $240.
* John Wists was not able to pay down the $186.40 he owed Phillip Sr for the land, and so he "conveyed the same by Deed of the date 31st August 1822 to Philip Koontz Jun in Trust to secure the payment of the said $186.40 on the 1st of September 1826 with Interest..."
*  Eli "further represents that the said Philip Koonts Jun. departed this life on the 16th day of Dec 1825. after having first made his Last Will and Testament wherein he appointed his son Peter P Koonts Ex'r thereof..."
* This land changed hands, and on the "10th day of April 1841 the said Harmon Houck conveyed the said two tracts of land...together with some other property to Reuben Koonts another son of the said Philip Koontz Jun."
* Eli "further states that on the ___ day of ___ 184_ the said Philip Koonts Senr. departed this life intestate and that on the ___ day of ____ 1842 Administration of his estate was granted to your orator [Eli] by the county court of Rockingham".
* It appears that because the transactions include sale by Peter P Koontz and money was distributed to the children of Philip Koontz Jr, Eli is asking that all of Philip Koontz Jr's children be made "Defendents to this bill":  "Peter P. Koonts, Wilson A Koonts, & Elizabeth Koonts of Rockingham and William Wood & Mary Wood his wife, Simeon Roach & Dianna Roach his wife of chir[?], & Sabina Freeman wife of Woodville A. Freeman of Kentucky who together with your orator Eli H. Koonts are the children & heirs of Philip Koonts Jun. and who are also the brothers & sisters & heirs of Reuben Koonts another son of the said Philip Koonts Jun. who died intestate & unmarried and without other heirs than his said brothers & sisters..."

=== Land Tax ===
* 1841<ref>https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-C37S-S96R?i=33&cat=410902</ref> Philip Koontz:  100 Acres Smiths Creek
* 1842<ref>https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-C37S-SSH1?i=197&cat=410902</ref> Philip Koontz:  100 Acres Smiths Creek
* 1843<ref>https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-C37S-S9WP?i=251&cat=410902</ref> Philip Koontz:  100 Acres Smiths Creek
* 1844<ref>https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-C37S-S9WP?i=251&cat=410902</ref> Philip Koontz Est:  100 Acres Smiths Creek

=== Personal Property Tax ===
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS79-L198?i=251&cat=411278 1782 William MacDowell's List]
** Phillip Countz: 1 white tithable, 4 horses, 7 cattle
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS79-LB1J?i=287&cat=411278 1783 William MacDowell's List]
** Philip Counce:  1 white tithable, 4 horses, 8 cattle 
** [[Koontz-229.wikitext|Peter Counce]]:  1 white tithable, 6 horses, 1 cattle
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS79-L1NP?i=303&cat=411278 1784 William MacDowell's List] (Capt. James Huling's Company)
** Peter Counce: 1 white tithable, 5 horses, 12 cattle 
** Philip Counce: 1 white tithabLe, 4 horse, 4 cattle
* 1785 William MacDowell's List, Capt Harrison's Compnay
** [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS79-LBYZ?i=320&cat=411278 Philip Counce]: 1 white tithable, 6 horse, 6 cattle
** [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS79-L1Q6?i=319&cat=411278 Peter Counce]: 1 white tithable, 5 horses, 12 cattle 
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS79-LBK8?i=336&cat=411278 1786 Andrew Rader's, Capt Lair's Company]
** Pet. Counts: 2 white tithables, 5 horses, 11 cattle
** Phillip Counts:  1 white tithable, 6 horses, 3 cattle
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS79-LBNM?i=382&cat=411278 1787]  (First alphabetical list)
** Martin Counce:  1 white tithable, 2 horses, 4 cattle
** Peter Counce:  2 white tithables (1 age 16-20), 5 horses, 13 cattle
** Phillip Counce: 2 white tithables (1 age 16-20), 5 horses, 6 cattle
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS79-LB4G?i=451&cat=411278 1788] (cattle not counted)
** Peter Counce:  2 white tithables, 5 horses
** Martin Counce:  1 white tithable, 2 horses
** Phillip Counce: 2 white tithables, 5 horses
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS79-LYHH?i=503&cat=411278 1789]
** Martin Counce:  1 white tithable, 2 horses
** Phillip Counce: 2 white tithables, 5 horses
** Peter Counce:  2 white tithables, 6 horses
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS79-LYJY?i=551&cat=411278 1790]
** [[Koontz-1153.wikitext|Peter Counce Jr]]: 1 white tithable, 2 horses
** Martin Counce: 1 white tithable, 3 horses
** Phillip Counce: 2 white tithables, 5 horses
** Peter Counce Sen:  1 white tithables, 6 horses
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS79-LYHT?i=578&cat=411278 1791]
** Peter Counce Sen:  1 white tithables, 6 horses
** Peter Counce: 1 white tithable, 2 horses
** Phillip Counce: 1 white tithables, 5 horses
** Martin Counce: 1 white tithable, 4 horses
** John Counce: 1 white tithable, 2 horses
*** Note:  John is not grouped with the others, but his entry into the list coincides with a decrement in Phillip's tithable count.  John's tithable count increases in 1792, and along with being separate from the group, his relationship to Phillip is unclear.
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS79-LYSY?i=627&cat=411278 1792]
** Peter Counce: 1 white tithable, 1 horse
** Martin Counce: 1 white tithable, 4 horses
** Peter Counce Sen:  2 white tithables, 7 horses
** Phillip Counce: 1 white tithables, 3 horses
** John Counce: 2 white tithables, 2 horses
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS79-LTDG?i=702&cat=411278 1793]
** Martin Counce: 1 white tithable, 4 horses
** Phillip Counce: 1 white tithables, 3 horses
** Peter Counce [Sen]:  2 white tithables, 7 horses
** John Counce: 2 white tithables, 2 horses, 1 slave
** <s>Peter Counce</s>
*** [[Koontz-1153.wikitext|"Peter Kunce"]] appeared in the Augusta, Virginia personal property tax list in 1793.  
*** He married Elizabeth Ann Jones, daughter of Enos Jones, in Augusta County, Virginia 2 Dec 1793
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS79-L994-W?i=728&cat=411278 1794]
** Phillip Counce: 2 white tithables, 3 horses
** Peter Counce:  2 white tithables, 7 horses
** Phillip Counce: 1 white tithable
** Martin Counce: 1 white tithable, 4 horses
** John Counce: 1 white tithables, 2 horses
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSPG-K3PL-R?i=23&cat=411278 1795]
** Martin Counce: 2 white tithables, 4 horses
** Peter Counce:  3 white tithables, 7 horses
** Phillip Counce: 1 white tithable, 1 horse
** Phillip Counce Sen: 2 white tithables, 3 horses
** [[Koontz-1153.wikitext|Peter Counce]]:  1 white tithable
*** Absent from the Augusta County personal property tax list in 1795
** John Counce: 1 white tithables, 2 horses
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSPG-K3P6-6?i=114&cat=411278 1796]
** Peter Countz:  3 white tithables, 5 horses
** Martin Countz: 1 white tithables, 3 horses
** Phillip Counts [Sen]: 2 white tithables, 2 horses
** Peter Countz:  1 white tithable
** <s>Phillip Counce</s>
** John Countz: 1 white tithables, 1 horse
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSPG-K3P6-P?i=159&cat=411278 1797]
** John Koontz: 2 white tithables, 1 horse
** Martin Koontz: 1 white tithables, 3 horses
** Peter Koontz:  1 white tithable
** Peter Koontz:  1 white tithables, 6 horses
** Jos. Koontz:  1 white tithable, 1 horse
** Phillip Koonts [Sen]: 1 white tithable, 1 horses
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSPG-K3PZ-S?i=198&cat=411278 1798]
** Peter Koontz:  2 white tithables, 6 horses
** Peter Koontz:  1 white tithable
** John Koontz: 1 white tithables, 1 horse
** Martin Koontz: 1 white tithables, 3 horses
** Jos. Koontz:  1 white tithable, 1 horse
** Phillip Koontz: 1 white tithable, 1 horse
** Phillip Koontz: 2 white tithables, 2 horses
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSPG-K3P4-7?i=293&cat=411278 1799]
** John Kunns: 2 white tithables, 2 horse
** Peter Kuhns: 1 white tithable
** Martin Koontz: 1 white tithables, 3 horses
** Peter Koontz:  2 white tithables, 7 horses
** Phillip Koontz: 2 white tithables, 2 horses
** Phillip Koontz junr.: 1 white tithable, 2 horses
* [https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSPG-K3PC-Z?i=312&cat=411278 1800]
** Peter Koonts (Ke. Town): 1 tithable
** Jno. Koonts (Do.):  2 tithable, 2 horses
** Phillip Koontz junr.: 1 white tithable, 1 horse
** Martin Koontz: 1 white tithables, 2 horses
** John Koontz:  1 white tithable
** Philip Koontz Sr.:  1 white tithable, 3 horses
** Peter Koontz:  1 white tithable, 8 horses
** John Koontz (son of Peter):  1 tithable

== Sources ==
<references />