== Biography ==
The American Genealogical Biographical Index shows<ref>Godfrey Memorial Library; Middletown, Connecticut; American Genealogical Biographical Index; Volume Number: 172</ref>:
<blockquote>
Name:	Jacob Swallow<br />
Birth Date:	1740-1749<br />
Birth Place:	Virginia, USA<br />
Volume:	172<br />
Page number:	315<br />
</blockquote>

Jacob Swallow m. Mary Stephenson, daughter of Thomas Stephenson, date unknown.  They had no children.<ref>Chancery Court case 1821-041, Augusta County, https://www.lva.virginia.gov/chancery/full_case_detail.asp?CFN=015-1821-041#img</ref>:

=== Revolutionary War ===
Jacob Swallow appears in the ''Historical register of Virginians in the revolution, soldiers, sailors, marines, 1775-1783'' shows: "Swallow, Jacob, Capt. Long's Co., Augusta"<ref>Historical register of Virginians in the revolution, soldiers, sailors, marines, 1775-1783 Ed. By John H. Gwathmey. Richmond, Va. 1938. (13, 872p.):752</ref>.

Jacob Swallow appears in the ''Augusta County Court Marshal'' index<ref>The Virginia Genealogical Society. Virginia Genealogical Society Quarterly and Magazine of Virginia Genealogy., Volume 17, Number 4, page 127</ref>, showing:
<blockquote>
Swallow, Jacob<br />
:1779: 141, 150<br />
:1780: 164, 191<br />
</blockquote>

The Court Marshal records show that Jacob Swallow was listed in "Capt. Long's Delinquent List" of those who failed to be present for muster.  
* The 1779 entry on page 141 shows "Returned for not appearing at one Private Muster 1st March 1779...Jacob Swallow find".
* The 1779 entry on page 150 shows "Returned for not appearing at one Private Muster 5th July 1779...Jacob Swallow find".
* The 1780 entry on page 164 shows "Jacob Swallow of Capt. Longs Comp'y Returned for not Appearing at Two Private Musters Viz 27th Nov. & 25th Dec. 1779.  Jacob Swallow Acquited of Both the above Delinquenceys."
* The 1780 entry on page 191 shows "Returned for not appearing at a Private Muster 10th June 1780...Jacob Swallow find".

Jacob Swallow submitted a claim<ref>Claims Presented to the Court of Augusta, 12 Mark 1782 to March 1785, Transcribed by Clay Hamilton & Marty Hiatt, Virginia Genealogical Society, 2005, page 48</ref> for compensation to a special session of the Augusta County Court:  "To Jacob Swallows for 33 days waggonage @ 10/ ~~ 4 days d[itt]o @ 14/".

=== Marriage ===

Jacob Swallow m. Mary Stephenson, daughter of Thomas Stephenson, date unknown.  They had no children.

In the Augusta County Order Book 18<ref>Order Book 16, page 10 [image 627]</ref> 18 Mar 1783<ref>Order Book 16, page 5</ref>:

<blockquote>
The commonwealth against Mary Swallow on the complaint of Rachel Howard for a breach of peace - The parties being heard, it is ordered that the said Mary be bound to the peace for the term of one year, herself in the sum of fifty pounds, and two securities in the sum of twenty five pounds each, whereupon the said Mary with Leonard Shown and Samuel Runkle her securities, appeared in court & acknowledged themselves indebted to the commonwealth in the sums aforesaid to be levied of their goods and chattels lands and tenements respectively, upon condition that if the above bound Mary Swallow shall keep the peace & be of good behavior toward all the good citizens of this commonwealth and more especially towards Rachel Howard, then the above obligation to be void, else to remain in full force.
</blockquote>

In the Augusta County Order Book 18<ref>Order Book 18, page 255 [image 749]</ref> 13 June 1784<ref>Order Book 16, page 252</ref> (the clerk has confused the wives' names; "Susannah" is John Cook's wife and "Mary" is Jacob Swallow's wife):

<blockquote>
The Commonwealth Plt against Jacob Swallow & Susana his Wife and Mary Cook upon the Complaint of John Cook - The Parties being heard it was ordered that the said Swallow & his Wife & Mary Cook be bound in the sum of ten pounds each & two securities in the sum of five pounds each - Whereupon Jacob Swallow, Susanah his Wife & Mary Cook, with John Shaver and Andrew Shaver their Security, acknowledged themselves indebted to the Commonwealth in the sum aforesaid to be levied of them goods and Chattels Lands and tenements respectively, set upon this condition of the above abound Swallow, his wife Susanah & Mary Cook shall be of good behavior toward all the good citizens of the Commonwealth, but especially toward John Cook for the space of One year that the above obligation to be void else to remain in full force & virtue.
</blockquote>

* Chakley:  Vol 1 p 421:  October, 1803 (P to Z):  Mary Swallow vs. Jacob Swallow.--Divorce.
* Order Book, 29 Oct 1803:  "Mary Swallow by [her brother-in-law] John Cook her next friend vs. Jacob Swallow in chancery.  This pltff having departed this life since the last continuance, it is ordered that this suit abate."<ref>Order books, v. 28 1803-1804, Page 72, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSL6-M3NV-1?i=566&cat=275633</ref>

=== Personal Property Tax in Augusta ===

1777<ref>List of tithables, 1777-1778, Augusta County (Virginia). County Clerk https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS4C-SJPF?i=7&cat=282893</ref> Jacob Swallow appears in Elijah McClanahan's list for Capt. Buchanan's Company with 1 tithable and 150 acres of land.<br />
1782<ref>Personal property tax lists of Augusta County, Virginia. Commissioner of the Revenue (Augusta County), 1782, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSQF-W3Q3-M?i=27&cat=406586</ref>. Jacob Swallow appears in the Augusta Personal Property list in the district of Capt. Buchanan and Capt. Long's Company, dated 10 Apr 1782, with 1 tithable, 7 horses and 8 Neat Cattle.<br />
1783<ref>Personal property tax lists of Augusta County, 1783, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSQF-W331-Y?i=62&cat=406586</ref> J. Swallow 1 Tithable, 4 Horses, 8 cattle.<br />
1784<ref>Personal property tax lists of Augusta County, 1784, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSQF-W3QM-X?i=88&cat=406586</ref> Jacob Swallow 1 Tithable 4 Horses, 6 cattle.<br />
1784<ref>Personal property tax lists of Augusta County, 1784, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSQF-W33L-9?i=116&cat=406586</ref> Jacob Swallow 1 Tithable, 4 Horses, 6 cattle<br />
1785<ref>Personal property tax lists of Augusta County, 1785, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSQF-W33J-9?i=134&cat=406586</ref>Jacob Swallow 1 Tithable, 4 Horses, 7 cattle<br />
1786<ref>Personal property tax lists of Augusta County, 1786, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSQF-W338-6?i=164&cat=406586</ref> Jacob Swallow 1 Tithable, 6 Horses, 6 Cattle<br />
1786<ref>Personal property tax lists of Augusta County, 1786, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSQF-W33C-K?i=181&cat=406586</ref> Jacob Swallow 1 Tithable, 6 Horses, 6 Cattle<br />
1787<ref>Personal property tax lists of Augusta County, 1787, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSQF-W33Z-V?i=216&cat=406586</ref> Jacob Swallow 1 Tithable, 7 Horses, 7 Cattle<br />
1788<ref>Personal property tax lists of Augusta County, 1788, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSQF-W339-L?i=258&cat=406586</ref> Jacob Swallow 1 Tithable, 7 Horses<br />
1789<ref>Personal property tax lists of Augusta County, 1789, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSQF-W3ST-J?i=290&cat=406586</ref> Peter Coon, 1 Tithable  (See below.  In his will, Jacob Swallow indicated he was related to a Peter Kountz.)<br />
1789<ref>Personal property tax lists of Augusta County, 1789, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSQF-W33M-K?i=300&cat=406586</ref> Jacob Swallow, 2 Tithables, 1 "Blacks above 16", 6 Horses<br />
1790<ref>Personal property tax lists of Augusta County, 1790, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSQF-W339-2?i=338&cat=406586</ref> Jacob Swallow 2 Tithables, 6 Horses<br />
1791<ref>Personal property tax lists of Augusta County, 1791, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSQF-W3QW-L?i=383&cat=406586</ref> Jacob Swallow 2 Tithables, 5 Horses<br />
1791: Peter Coon, Peter Kuhns and Peter Kunce, each with 1 Tithable.<br />
1792<ref>Personal property tax lists of Augusta County, 1792, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSQF-W3QS-Z?i=421&cat=406586</ref> Jacob Swallow 1 Tithable, 5 Horses<br />
1796<ref>Personal property tax lists of Augusta County, Virginia. Commissioner of the Revenue (Augusta County), https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSQN-T9LW-J?i=25&cat=406586</ref> Jacob Swallow 1 Tithable, 3 Horses<br />
1797<ref>Personal property tax lists of Augusta County, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSQN-T9LQ-Q?i=64&cat=406586</ref> Jacob Swallow 1 Tithable, 4 Horses<br />
1798<ref>Personal Property tax lists of Augusta County, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSQN-T9L9-G?i=101&cat=406586</ref> 1 Tithable, 4 Horses<br />
1799<ref>Personal Property tax lists of Augusta County, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSQN-T921-Z?i=142&cat=406586</ref> 1 Tithable, 5 Horses<br />
1800<ref>Personal Property tax lists of Augusta County, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSQN-T92Y-P?i=187&cat=406586</ref> 1 Tithable, 4 Horses<br />
1801<ref>Personal Property tax lists of Augusta County, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSQN-T92R-G?i=236&cat=406586</ref> 1 Tithable, 4 Horses

Mary Swallow appears separately for the first time in 1802.  In 1802, Jacob's and Mary's names are adjacent.  In 1803, they were listed on dates 6 weeks apart.

1802<ref>Personal Property tax lists of Augusta County, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSQN-T925-S?i=285&cat=406586</ref> Jacob Swallow 1 Tithable, 6 Horses.  Mary Swallow 1 Horse.<br />
1803<ref>Personal Property tax lists of Augusta County, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSQN-T92G-D?i=334&cat=406586</ref> Mary Swallow 2 Horses [17 May]<br />
1803<ref>Personal Property tax lists of Augusta County, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSQN-T92L-V?i=335&cat=406586</ref> Jacob Swallow 1 Tithable 5 Horses [23 June]

Mary died in 1803.

1804<ref>Personal Property tax lists of Augusta County, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSQN-T922-M?i=380&cat=406586</ref> Jacob Swallow 1 Tithable, 6 Horses.<br />
1805<ref>Personal Property tax lists of Augusta County, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSQN-T92J-P?i=430&cat=406586</ref> Jacob Swallow 1 Tithable, 4 Horses.<br />
1806<ref>Personal Property tax lists of Augusta County, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSQN-T92N-N?i=479&cat=406586</ref> Jacob Swallow 1 Tithable, 5 Horses.<br />
1807<ref>Personal Property tax lists of Augusta County, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSQN-T92X-X?i=529&cat=406586</ref> Jacob Swallow 1 Tithable, 5 Horses.

The Commonwealth of Virginia did not collect taxes in 1808.

1809<ref>Personal Property tax lists of Augusta County, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSQN-T9LD-9?i=577&cat=406586</ref> Jacob Swallow 1 Tithable, 6 Horses.

Jacob Swallow does not appear in the 1810-1817 tax lists of Augusta County.  However, in 1815 the Augusta Land Tax began documenting "Residence", and "Augusta" is the documented residence for Jacob Swallow 1815-1816.

=== Will ===

Jacob Swallow names Kountz siblings in his will<ref>Will books, v. 12 1814-1819, Page 287, Virginia. County Court (Augusta County), (Salt Lake City, Utah : Filmed by the Genealogical Society of Utah, 1952) https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-C9TH-5XNR?i=642&cat=279443</ref> dated 2 Mar 1796, two days after Mary Swallow sued for separate maintenance.  The will was probated 27 Oct 1817.
# Peter Kountz
# Mary (Kountz) Smith [married to Jacob Smith]
# Paul Kountz
# John Kountz
# William Kountz
# Sarah (Kountz) Keller (there is a transcription error in the lawsuit, which shows "Rector" or "Reiler") [Married to Ludwig/Ludowick Keller]

John and William are to be his executors.

To Peter:  "that tract or parcel of Land whereon Phillip Dull now lives together with all thereto belonging only he is to give to his Eldest son one hundred pounds out of said Land when he shall be Lawfull age to him this heirs for ever.

To his wife Mary:  "to Mary that was formerly my wife but now absconed & left my bed and board without any provacation it is my will & do order that she shall be paid twenty pounds to be paid out of my Estate."

To the others:  "...the Land whereon I now live which said Land I purchased from John McCorkell to be sold & the money arising from the said Sail[sic] together with all the rest of my Estate only was before mentioned to be equally devided after paying my Sister Mary Smith twenty five pounds amongst my Brothers and Sisters hereafter named to wit Paul Koontz, John Kountz, William Kountz, Polly Smith which was before mentioned to get the twenty five pounds as aforesaid above what the rest gets and Sarah Keller."

The Augusta Land Tax lists show that Jacob Swallow had 120 acres until 1793.  In 1794, he appears to have retained 28 acres of that land (presumably Peter's portion of the estate), sold land to Jacob Fix<ref>Augusta County Deed Book 25, p 175</ref> and Henry Swink<ref>Augusta County Deed Book 25, p 176</ref>, and purchased 256 acres from John McCorkell.  Jacob had been named administrator of the estate of his father-in-law, Thomas Stephenson<ref>Chalkley, Lyman. Chronicles of the Scotch-Irish Settlement in Virginia, 1745-1800. Extracted from the Original Court Records of Augusta County. Baltimore: Genealogical Publishing Co., 1965. Originally published in 1912., Vol 1 p 264: April 19, 1791: (436-437) Admin. of the estate of Thos. Stephenson granted Jacob Swallow.</ref> 19 Apr 1791, and these land changes may be related to that.

In 1793, Jacob assigned land to Michael Garber et al<ref>Augusta County Deed Book 30, p 189</ref>, in 1800 he sold land to Frederick Hawk<ref>Augusta Deed Book 31, p 183</ref>, and in 1802 he sold land to John Beard<ref>Augusta County Deed Book 32, p 51</ref>.

In 1802<ref>Land Tax Records for Augusta County, Library of Virginia, Reel 21</ref>, Jacob no longer owns the 28 acres, only the 256 acres, and in 1803<ref>Land Tax Records for Augusta County, Library of Virginia, Reel 22</ref>, this amount is reduced to 226 1/2.  It is possible that land was sold or transferred in the context of a divorce settlement.

In 1817<ref>Land Tax Records for Augusta County, Library of Virginia, Reel 23</ref>, the Land Tax shows Jacob's acreage further reduced to 170 acres.

==== Identifying Beneficiaries ====

A lawsuit filed by John Hughes, newphew of Mary Swallow, provides more information about the beneficiaries.

* Paul Koontz lived in Maryland and died in 1815.
* John Koontz lived in Rockingham, Virginia.
* William Koontz lived in Maryland.
* Polly Smith is married to Jacob Smith, and they lived in Indiana in 1819.
* Sarah Keller is married to Ludowick/Ludwig Keller, and they lived in Rockingham.  Sorting through records, it is not always clear whether the subject is father or son, since both seem to have used "Lewis" as a first name.  Lewis Jr. is married to Ann Kiplinger, according to a deed dated 15 Nov 1814.  According to an 1819 lawsuit, Sarah Keller was still alive and living in Rockingham with Ludkwick in 1819.
** Lodowick Keller is grantee in a Rockingham deed dated 25 Feb 1793<ref>Rockingham Deed Book 0 (transcript), p 539</ref> 375 acres for 420 pounds.  Grantor is Leonard Miller.  175 acres orginated from Andrew Fough patent dated 1 Sep 1752; 65 acres "being a part of four hundred acres first granted to John Balfaught" by patent dated 20 Sep 1745; 140 acres granted to Leonard Miller dated 15 May 1784.
** Rockingham Land Tax records 1791-1794 show Leonard Miller's land unchanged in that period: 211 and 140 acres.  No land tax is indicated for Ludowick Keller.
** Ludwick Keller first appears in the 1795 land tax records with 169 acres, and in 1796-1797 with the same acreage.  In 1798-1800 the land tax record shows 176 acres ("152 & 24") and 37 acres ("14 & 23").
** Ludwick Keller first appears in the 1796 personal property tax records for Rockingham, and last appears in 1799.

=== Probate ===

==== Lawsuit for proceeds from the land ====

Chalkley's notes<ref>Chalkley, Lyman. Chronicles of the Scotch-Irish Settlement in Virginia, 1745-1800. Extracted from the Original Court Records of Augusta County. Baltimore: Genealogical Publishing Co., 1965. Originally published in 1912 Vol 2 p 225</ref>:  John Hughes vs. Jacob Swallow's representatives.--O.S.306; N.S. 109--Bill, December, 1819.  In 1803 orator purchased tract in Augusta on Piney Run from Jacob Swallow.  It was conveyed 11th March, 1785 by John Tate to Thomas Stephenson, who died, intestate, and the land descended to his three daughters, viz: Susannah, wife of John Cook; Mary, wife of Jacob Swallow; wife of William Hughes, mother of orator, who died, intestate, when orator was infant only 3 days old and he inherited 1/3 of her interest.  Mrs. Swallow died without children.  Jacob moved about the State, then went West and there died, testate.  Will in Augusta dated 27th October, 1817.  Paul Koontz lived in Maryland and is now dead.  William Koontz lives in Maryland.  Polly Smith, wife of Jacob Smith, lives in Indiana.  William Koontz [sic - per William above, probably means John Koontz] (executor of Jacob Swallow) and Sarah Keller and her husband, Ludwick Keller, live in Rockingham.

Additional information from Chancery Causes:  John Hughes vs Exc. of Jacob Swallow, etc.<ref>Chancery Court case 1821-041, Augusta County, https://www.lva.virginia.gov/chancery/full_case_detail.asp?CFN=015-1821-041#img</ref>:

John Stevenson had four daughters:
* Mary m. Jacob Swallow (no children)
* Rachel m. William Cooper (no children)
* Jane m. William Hughes ("third daughter", mother of John Hughes)
* Susannah m. John Cook (likely had children, John Jr, Peter and Michael shown with John Cook in Peronsal Property taxes 1788-1796)

Related to John Hughes' situation:
* Jane died very soon after giving bith to John Hughes.
* Mary Swallow "mentioned the trouble she had raising the child [John Hughes]"
* Mary Swallow sued for separate maintenance 29 Feb 1796.  This seems possibly to be an attempt to prevent Jacob Swallow from inheriting her land from Thomas Stevenson's estate.

In his deposition, Samuel Gibson said that "he was born and raised in the State of Pensylvania[sic] and resided a near-neighbor to Thomas Stevinson or Thomas Stinson and went to school there with his children for a number of years: after which time the said Stevinson removed about ten miles distant from where he then resided; and after which time this deponant states that he was intimate in the family of said Stevonson but not so much so as when we lived near neighbours: and was going to school with his family __ and this deponant further states that he was well acquainted with Thomas Stevenson after he removed to the State of Virginia and this deponant further states that the Plantiff[sic] in this Cause John Huse always passed for the grandson of the said Thomas Stevenson."  He also said that John Hughs' mother was the third daughter of Thomas Stevenson by the name of Jane, married to William Hughs.

In David Brand's deposition, he said that "Mary Swallow...lived with him and croped one season and this deponant states that during that time he had frequent conversation with her on the subject of the Plantiff and she uniformly made this statement that the Plantiff John Huse was her sisters son, and that she died very soon after the birth of said Jno Hughs and frequently heard her the said Mary Swallow mention the trouble she had in raising the child and also heard Cook's wife [Rachel, Mary's other sister] state that John Huse the Plantiff was the Heir of her sister Jane, who died amediately after his birth and heard of no other Heir ever spoken of by either Mrs.Swallow or Mrs. Cook, heirs of Thomas Stevenson Decd.".

David Brand also said that Jacob Swallow "had got property to a considerable amt from this Plantiff [John Hughes]" and that Mary "remarked that it made no difference for he would get it in the end - that is her own property - as there was no other Heirs but Plantiff..."

The 1803 Personal Property tax list for Augusta County shows "David Brand (Constable)" with 1 "Black between 12 & 16" and 5 Horses, and the listing date is 10 May (Mary listing date is 17 May).  It seems likely that Mary Swallow lived with David Brand in the 1802-1803 season.

In William Wilson's deposition, he stated that "neither Mary Swallow nor Rachel Cooper had any children.  Rachel Cooper and husband removed from this county about twenty or thirty years ago."

Among the records filed with this suit, another court action initiated by Jacob Swallow 29 Oct 1798 against the heirs of his father-in-law. In the bill for this suit, Jacob Swallow says that Thomas Stevenson had bought 400 acres of land from John Tate senior, and subsequently sold the land to Jacob Swallow.

<blockquote>
...The aforesaid Stevenson executed a bond to the complainant obliging himself his heirs etc. to convey the aforesaid Tract of Land in fee simple to the complainant, upon the complainants paying the money due on the bond given by the complainant and his security to the aforesaid Tate.  That the said title bond executed by said Stevenson hath been taken out of the complainants possession, together with other papers, by the wife of your complainant about the time she commenced a suit in Chancery for her separate maintanance in this worshipful court.
</blockquote>

==== Virginia ====

On 29 May 1818, a deed was recorded selling land owned by Jacob Swallow, deceased.  It was sold by his executor, John Kountz of Rockingham County to Zechariah Johnston of Augusta County<ref>Augusta County Order Book No. 37, page 85 https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSL6-M9LF-P?i=363&cat=275633</ref><ref>Deed Book 42, Augusta County, Page 308 https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSLD-1QSX-2?i=697&cat=282708</ref>.  John Koontz signs "John Kunns".

The Rockingham County Personal Property Tax list for 1818<ref>https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS4X-97KC-W?cat=411278</ref> was scanned for potential matches to the will's executor, John Koontz.  The following were identified:

* "Col. John Koontz", whose parents and sibling names require more research.  He was the grandfather of Maria (Koontz) Carr:  "My grandfathers Graham and Koontz (both named John) were among the first trustees of Harrisonburg. . . . My grandfather Koontz was a very popular man, and could have held any office he wanted.  He went to the legislature for several years (1797-98).  When I was about eight years old he was paralyzed. . . . He was elected to the legislature (1822-23) in spite of all this. . . .He had a store before I remember.  He bought a farm ten miles N. of Harrisonburg, called Big Spring [aka Lacey Springs], and built the house there when I was three years old (1815), which is now occupied by the Lincoln family.  He had a fine tan-yard, which was carried on by Isaac Hite, who married Polly Koontz, daughter of Col. John Koontz, sister of my father.  He had a large merchant and saw mill near his dwelling.  There was also a large log house just above the spring, which was used as a house of entertainment.  Mrs. Patten lived there when I first remember; afterwards some of the Lincoln family got it."<ref>Men of mark and representative citizens of Harrisonburg and Rockingham County, Virginia : portraits and biographies of men and women, John W. Wayland (editor), The McClure company, inc., 1943, page 411</ref>.  His great-grandson, Gen. C. C. C. Carr stated in a letter dated 1911, that Col. John Koontz was probably born in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania<ref>Virginia Valley Records, Wayland, p 167-168</ref>.  A deed dated 7 Jan 1794 in Frederick County, Virginia<ref>Deed books, 1743-1867; general indexes to deeds, 1743-1876, Virginia County Court (Frederick County), Filmed by the Genealogical Society of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah, 1952, Deed Book  24A, p. 237</ref> shows John Koontz "and Jane his wife" selling land.  He appears in the Rockingham Land Tax list in 1798<ref>Land tax lists, 1782-1803, Virginia. Commissioner of the Revenue (Rockingham County), Filmed by the Genealogical Society of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah, 1955, image 549</ref>.

* John Koontz, son of Peter Sr, b. about 1776, has no siblings named Paul or William, and is likely not the person in Jacob Swallow's will.

* John Koontz "Tanner". Previous tax lists note "K.T." or "near Keezletown".  There are a couple of references that could be interpreted to support him as a somewhat likely match for the person in Jacob Swallow's will:
** A "Peter Koontz" consistently appears nearby in the Personal Property tax lists, also in Keezletown, and is possibly his brother.  In the 1880 census, his surviving childrens' "father's birthplace" is Maryland.  He was just married 2 Dec 1793 to Elizabeth Ann Jones, daughter of Enos Jones.  His oldest son, John, was born about 1795.  The idea that Peter Koontz' eldest son would be an infant may account for Jacob Swallow's discretion about naming the eldest son in his will.
** A "William Counce" appears only in the 1790 Rockingham County Personal Property tax list, entered on the same day as "Coonrod Cline N River".  His possible connection is with the above Peter Koontz.  "William Koontz" is listed near Conrad Cline in the tax list, and Conrad Cline is the father of Nancy (Anna) Cline, who married Peter Koontz' son Jacob.  Otherwise, William appears in Frederick County, Maryland tax lists.

==== Kentucky ====

In the Chancery suit John Hughes vs Exc. of Jacob Swallow, etc.<ref>Chancery Court case 1821-041, Augusta County, https://www.lva.virginia.gov/chancery/full_case_detail.asp?CFN=015-1821-041#img</ref>, John Koontz' response includes this statement: "There was some property in Kentucky when the testator died, no part of which has ever come into the hands of this respondent."

Administrator bond 19 May 1817: "James Johnson and Jeremiah Long are held and firmly bound unto the Commonwealth of Kentucky, in the just and full sum of $1500... The condition of the above obligation is such, that if  the said James Johnson <s>Executor</s> Administrator of the goods, chattels and credits of Jacob Swallow deceased ..." <ref>"Kentucky Probate Records, 1727-1990," database with images, FamilySearch (https://familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:33S7-9P33-9CTC?cc=1875188&wc=37R2-N36%3A173765901%2C173765902 : 20 May 2014), Shelby > Administrator bonds, index, 1816-1823 > image 23 of 187; county courthouses, Kentucky.</ref>

Research on Shelby County, Kentucky:
* Shelby County 
** Jacob Swallow not found in tax books for 1811-1817.  The Administrator bond infers that there was at least some personal property that would need disposition.  It is possible that he was living with someone who was listed as head, and Jacob was not named separately.
** James Johnson Sen is found in the 1816 tax book<ref>Shelby County Tax Books, 1816-1829 image 40</ref> with 2 tithables, but in 1817<ref>Shelby County Tax Books, 1816-1829 image 40</ref> only 1 tithable [1816-1829 image 126]
** Jeremiah Long not found tax book 1816. Listed in 1817 [129] 1 over age 21; 1 horse.  Found in 1819 [226] (no 1818 tax book) with 1 over age 21; 1 "N" over age 16; 3 blacks; 3 horses.  Jeremiah m. Lucy Johnson daughter of James Johnson 26 Jan 1815<ref>"Kentucky, County Marriages, 1797-1954," database with images, FamilySearch (https://familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3QS7-L937-298R?cc=1804888&wc=QD3Q-4TL%3A1589735518 : 17 May 2018), 005685962 > image 859 of 1176; citing multiple county clerks, county courts, and historical societies, Kentucky.</ref>.

Research on counties surrounding Shelby County, Kentucky:
* Jefferson County: Not found in tax books for 1814 or 1817 (1815 and 1816 are missing).
* Henry County:  Not found in deed index.
* Franklin County:  Not found in deed index.  Not found in Tax Books 1810-1817.
* Anderson County TBD
* Spencer County TBD
* Oldham County TBD

== Research Notes ==

=== Bondsman ===
Jacob Swallow appears as bondsman in Augusta County Marriage Bonds.<ref>Chalkley, Chronicles of the Scotch-Irish Settlement</ref>

=== Chalkley ===

Other references to Jacob Swallow in Chalkley, Chronicles of the Scotch-Irish Settlement<ref>Chalkley, Chronicles of the Scotch-Irish Settlement</ref>:

Vol 1 p 264:  April 19, 1791: (436-437) Admin. of the estate of Thos. Stephenson granted Jacob Swallow.

Vol 1 p 387:  March, 1788 (H to Z): Jacob Swallow and Mary, his wife, vs Thomas Stephenson. - 4th September, 1786

Vol 1 p 406:  May, 1796: Margaret Hatton, infant, by Margaret Hatton, her next friend, vs. Jacob Swallow and wife, Mary, and Peter Miller, infant, his servant and apprentice.--Slander. 20 September, 1794.

Vol 2 p 20:  Thomas Stephenson vs. Jacob Swallow, Leonard Shown, William Wilson--Debt.  Augusta, 23rd March, 1790.

Vol 2 P 284:  1786--September 27, Mathias Swink and Sally Wilson, daughter of Robert Wilson.  Mathias is son of Lawrence Swink.  Surety, Jacob Swallow; witnesses, Wm. Heart, Wm. Christian.

Vol 2 p 196: 1791--December 22, Mark Hatton and Jane Kindred; surety, Jacob Swallow.

Vol 2 p 304: 1787--April 21, James Hulet and Jacob Swallow, surety.  James Hulet and Elizabeth McCorkle, daughter of Saml. McCorkell (consent).  Elizabeth is 22 years old.  Teste: John McCorkell, Benj. Chapman, Saml. McCorkell.

Vol 3 p 218:  Page 60.--3d May, 1800.  Henry Hawk to sons John and Abraham Hawk--Bill of sale to personal property.  Teste: John Coalter, Jacob Swallow.

Vol 3 p 225:  Page 359.--3d May, 1800, Henry Hawk's will (Hawp?)--To wife, Catharine; to sons, John and Abraham; to son, Jacob; son, Frederick; daughter, Elizabeth Fogus; to daughter, Catharine Shoultz; son, Andrew; daughter, Rachel Gregory; to daughter, Polly Gregory; daughter, Catherine Wintermaker (Winters) by a former wife.  Teste: Michael Garber, Jr.; Jacob Swallow, Jno. Coalter.  Executors, sons John and Abraham.  Proved, 26th March, 1804.  Executors qualify.

Vol 3 p 246:  [Will]

Vol 3 p 574:  Page 89.--11th March, 1785.  John Taite, Sr., to Thomas Stevenson Delivered to Jacob Swallow 1st June, 1787, 400 acres patented to said John Taite on Pine Run, a branch of Souther River near South Mountain.  Teste:  Samuel McConkey, Anthony Mustoe.

NOTE:  Mary Swallow's maiden name was Stephenson, daughter of Thomas Stephenson.  Originally name may have been Stinson.

1790 Maryland census [Maryland > Frederick > Not Stated]:
* Page 192:  Henry Coonts Sen 2 Males 16 and over, 2 Males under 16, 3 Females, 1 slave; Paul Coontz 1 Male 16 and over, 6 Females.
* Page 193:  William Coontz 3 Males 16 and over, 3 Males under 16, 3 females; 

=== Paul Kountz, Deceased ===
* Maryland General Index to Register of Wills<ref>
https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:33SQ-GTBL-S7CB?i=128&wc=SNYH-MNB%3A146535301%2C147286501&cc=1803986</ref>:  Paul Koons | Peter & Andrew Koons Mar 20 1815
* Will<ref>Maryland Register of Wills Records, 1629-1999," images, FamilySearch (https://familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:33S7-9T1V-S8Y?cc=1803986&wc=SNYH-BZS%3A146535301%2C147326301 : 20 May 2014), Frederick > Wills 1809-1815 vol 1 > image 295 of 310; Hall of Records, Annapolis.</ref>

=== Jacob Swallow in New Jersey ===
A Swallow family is present in New Jersey.  There is no evidence that the family in New Jersey is related to Jacob Swallow in Virginia.

=== Rabbit Hole ===

The Rockingham County Deed Index shows a deed between "Peter Koontz" and Samuel Coffman, November 1817.  This is based on the burnt deed book transcription of information from the Minute Books:  "A Deed for Land from Peter Koontz & wife to Samuel Coffman acknowledged before these Magistrates in Shenandoah & Certified."  Since this is the same year as the Will's probate, and just the following month, it seemed like a candidate for Swallow's land "where is once lived", particularly because no "Peter Koontz" owned the land the previous year, according to the Land Tax list.

Further checking shows that the deed transcription from the Minute Book is incorrect, and the name written in Minute Book 9, Page 142 is "Peter Phoutz and wife".  The Rockingham County Land Tax for 1817 shows 40 1/2 owned by Peter Pfouts of Shenandoah<ref>https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS4C-ZQXH-8?i=500&cat=410902</ref>, and in 1818 Samuel Coffman has an additional 40 "from Peter Pfoutz"<ref>https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS4C-ZQX8-V?cat=410902</ref>, and the transaction is unrelated to Jacob Swallow in any way.  Shenandoah County Personal Property Tax list for 1817<ref>https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS79-2HZZ-P?i=802&cat=695422</ref> shows "Peter Foutz".


== Resources ==
<references />