== Biography ==
* Name:  John Koontz
* Birth:  13 Jul 1762<ref>Find a Grave, database and images (https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/20728188/john-koontz: accessed July 31, 2024), memorial page for John Koontz (13 Jul–19 ??? 1846), Find a Grave Memorial ID 20728188, citing Keezletown Cemetery, Keezletown, Rockingham County, Virginia, USA; Maintained by Anonymous (contributor 47074340).</ref>
* Parents:  Unknown
* Spouse:  Catharine Troberger
* Death:  9 Sep 1846

Children:
* John, b. About 1799, m. Frances C Huffman 19 Oct 1835<ref>Rockingham County, Virginia - Self Service SRA, Marriage License document 1835-00029, https://rockinghamcountyva-web.tylerhost.net/web/document/DOCCACS-2739366?search=DOCSEARCH133S8</ref>, d. about 1877.
* Elizabeth, b. 25 May 1795, m. William Seals 24 Feb 1816<ref>Rockingham County, Virginia - Self Service SRA, Marriage License document 1816-00197, https://rockinghamcountyva-web.tylerhost.net/web/document/DOCCACS-2746426?search=DOCSEARCH133S8</ref>, d. 16 Jan 1874 Montgomery County, Indiana<ref>Find a Grave, database and images (https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/147729962/elizabeth-seal: accessed July 31, 2024), memorial page for Elizabeth Kountz Seal (25 May 1795–16 Jan 1874), Find a Grave Memorial ID 147729962, citing Ladoga Cemetery, Ladoga, Montgomery County, Indiana, USA; Maintained by R & S Fine (contributor 46620684).</ref>
* Peter Koontz b. About 1799, m. Harriet Davis 7 Oct 1861<ref>Rockingham County, Virginia - Self Service SRA, Marriage License document 1861-00063, https://rockinghamcountyva-web.tylerhost.net/web/document/DOCCACS-2728025?search=DOCSEARCH133S8</ref>, d. 12 Feb 1865<ref>Library of Virginia; Richmond, Virginia; Virginia Deaths and Burials, 1853-1912</ref>
* Polly, m. Charles Nicholas 20 Sep 1824<ref>Rockingham County, Virginia - Self Service SRA, Marriage License document 1824-00068, https://rockinghamcountyva-web.tylerhost.net/web/document/DOCCACS-2743656?search=DOCSEARCH133S8</ref>,
* Barbary, m. David Scott 5 Jan 1829<ref>Rockingham County, Virginia - Self Service SRA, Marriage License document 1829-00085, https://rockinghamcountyva-web.tylerhost.net/web/document/DOCCACS-2741843?search=DOCSEARCH133S8</ref>


== Research Notes ==

=== Birth ===
* 1830 census<ref>Year: 1830; Census Place: Rockingham, Virginia; Series: M19; Roll: 199; Page: 233; Family History Library Film: 0029678</ref> shows oldest male in the household is age 60-69.  
* Grave stone<ref>Find a Grave, database and images (https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/20728188/john-koontz: accessed July 31, 2024), memorial page for John Koontz (13 Jul–19 ??? 1846), Find a Grave Memorial ID 20728188, citing Keezletown Cemetery, Keezletown, Rockingham County, Virginia, USA; Maintained by Anonymous (contributor 47074340).</ref> indicate birth date 13 Jul 1762.

=== Spouse ===
Son Peter Koontz' marriage license shows parents "John & Catharine Koontz".

The Rockingham County death register<ref>Library of Virginia; Richmond, Virginia; Virginia Deaths and Burials, 1853-1912</ref> shows Catharine Koontz died 22 Sep 1858 in Keezle Town. She is daughter of Michael Troberger of Pennsylvania, "Consort of John Koontz".  Information was provided by her son, Peter.

=== Residence in Rockingham County ===
There are a few "John Koontz" names appearing in the Rockingham County.  The subject John Koontz first appeared in the tax list in 1789.<ref>Personal property tax lists of Rockingham County, 1782-1863, "page 5th", image 246</ref>.  He is often identified with labels "(Tanner)" and Keezletown in the tax lists.

=== Death ===
"Division of Land"<ref>Rockingham County Burnt deed book, v. 19, 1846-1847, page 311, {{FamilySearch Image|3Q9M-CSYX-VSCF-C}}</ref>, which begins:  "Agreeable to an order of the County Court of Rockingham Made at the January Term 1847..." lists John's children in "A Statement of advancements made by John Koontz Sr In his life time to his children":
* John Koontz
* Elizabeth Seals (William)
* Peter Koontz
* Charles Nicholas (Polly)
* David Scott (Barbary)

The deed indicates that he left a widow, but does not name her.

== Sources ==
<references />