== Biography ==

* Name:  Jacob Koontz
* Birth: Abt. 1797<ref>Year: 1850; Census Place: District 56 and a half, Rockingham, Virginia; Roll: M432_974; Page: 207A; Image: 420</ref><ref>Year: 1860; Census Place: District 1, Rockingham, Virginia; Roll: M653_1379; Page: 608; Family History Library Film: 805379</ref>
* Parents: [[Koontz-1153|Peter Koontz]] and [[Jones-123586|Elizabeth Jones]]<ref>Burned deed book, v. 15, 1848-1849</ref>. 
* Spouse:  Anna "Nancy" Cline m. 31 Dec 1822<ref>Library of Virginia microfilm, Rockingham County reel 683 "Marriage Bonds & Consents, 1817 - 1835"</ref>.
* [[#Death|Death]]:  Abt. 1867

Children<ref>The National Archives in Washington, DC; Record Group: Records of the Bureau of the Census; Record Group Number: 29; Series Number: M432; Residence Date: 1850; Home in 1850: District 56 and A Half, Rockingham, Virginia; Roll: 974; Page: 207a</ref>:
* William, b. Abt 1824
* Sarah C, b. 15 Sep 1827, d. 14 May 1859 <ref>Find a Grave, database and images (https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/58857353/sarah_c-crittenberger: accessed August 1, 2024), memorial page for Sarah C. Kantz Crittenberger (15 Sep 1827–13 May 1859), Find a Grave Memorial ID 58857353, citing Miller Cemetery, Middletown, Henry County, Indiana, USA; Maintained by Leland Smith (contributor 47245715).</ref> Bell Creek, Henry County, Indiana, USA.
* Julia, b Abt 1830
* [[Koontz-409|George Conrad]], b 1 Mar 1830, d. 23 Aug 1894
* Christina Lydia, b. Abt 1834, m. George Fountain Reese 6 May 1851<ref>Rockingham County, Virginia - Self Service SRA, Marriage License document #1851-00750, https://rockinghamcountyva-web.tylerhost.net/web/document/DOCCACS-2732696?search=DOCSEARCH133S8</ref>, d. Aug 1865<ref>"Virginia, Bureau of Vital Statistics, Death Records, 1853-1912", , FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:8TYW-CJMM : Sun Mar 10 03:24:34 UTC 2024), Entry for Christiana Reece, Aug 1865.</ref>
* [[Koontz-1259|Peter Wilson]], b. Feb 1837<ref>Marriage license shows age 25 years 8 months</ref>, m. Elizabeth A. Cromer 22 Oct 1862<ref>Rockingham County, Virginia - Self Service SRA, Marriage License document #1862-00017, https://rockinghamcountyva-web.tylerhost.net/web/document/DOCCACS-2726743?search=DOCSEARCH133S8</ref>, d. 12 Oct 1870, Meyerhoffers Store, Rockingham, Virginia.
* [[Koontz-1258|Jacob G]], b. Abt 1840, d. 10 Jul 1863, Chancellorsville, Spotsylvania, Virginia
** Confederate records dated 2 Aug 1864<ref>Compiled service records of Confederate soldiers from Virginia units, labeled with each soldier's name, rank, and unit, with links to revealing documents about each soldier. https://www.fold3.com/image/11568452</ref> show father Jacob's signature for son Jacob's back pay.
* Mary Ann, b. Abt 1842, m. John W. Keller 30 Dec 1858<ref>Rockingham County, Virginia - Self Service SRA, Marriage License document # 1858-00082, (names are misspelled "Heller" and "Maryan Konts") https://rockinghamcountyva-web.tylerhost.net/web/document/DOCCACS-2729103?search=DOCSEARCH133S8</ref>, d. Jun 1883, Rockingham, Virginia<ref>Fridley, Beth. Bureau of Vital Statistics - Death Register for Rockingham County, 1878-1885. Taken from a microfilm copy of located in the Library of Virginia at Richmond, VA, USA.</ref>
* Elizabeth b. Abt 1843, m. Elbert Milton Beard 7 Dec 1859<ref>Rockingham County, Virginia - Self Service SRA, Marriage license document 1859-00180, https://rockinghamcountyva-web.tylerhost.net/web/document/DOCCACS-2728727?search=DOCSEARCH133S8</ref>, d. unknown
* Eliza Virginia, b. 16 May 1847, d. 5 Jun 1918<ref>Virginia Department of Health; Richmond, Virginia; Virginia Deaths, 1912-2014</ref>, m. Robert Evan Cox 3 Dec 1874<ref>Rockingham County, Virginia - Self Service SRA, Marriage license document #1874-00032, https://rockinghamcountyva-web.tylerhost.net/web/document/DOCCACS-2720579?search=DOCSEARCH133S8</ref>

== Research Notes ==

=== Residence in Rockingham, Virginia ===
In the 1850 census, Jacob's occupation is "Laborer", with no real estate of any value.  In the 1860 census, Jacob's occupation is "Farmer", with real estate valued at $1,200 and personal estate valued at $452.  Correlating information does not support this:
* Rockingham Land Tax for 1860<ref>Land tax lists, 1857-1861, Land tax lists of Rockingham County [Virginia] 1782-1863, Virginia. Commissioner of the Revenue (Rockingham County), Salt Lake City, Utah : Filmed by the Genealogical Society of Utah, 1955</ref> does not list him.
* Rockingham Personal Property Tax for 1860<ref>Personal property tax lists 1859-1860 image 478, Personal property tax lists of Rockingham County, 1782-1863, Virginia. Commissioner of the Revenue (Rockingham County), Salt Lake City, Utah : Filmed by the Genealogical Society of Utah, 1955</ref> shows a personal property aggregate value of $80.
* A search of deed indexes of Augusta or Shenandoah counties cannot find Jacob Koontz.

10 Sep 1825: Jacob and Anna Koontz are listed among confirmands at Peaked Mountain Church<ref>Peaked Mountain Church, Rockingham County, Virginia : baptisms, confirmations, communicants, marriages, deaths, 1745 to 1882, compiled by Mrs. Henry T. Wright, Army and Navy Chapter, District of Columbia, page 144, {{3Q9M-CSM7-LTZ2}}</ref>

=== Death ===
In the Rockingham County Personal Property Tax records, Jacob is listed through 1866, but begins to be missing in 1867<ref>Library of Virginia, microfilm reels 739-740</ref>. 

Status of children 1867-1870:

* William is not living in Rockingham, and possibly not living.
* Sarah died in 1859.
* Julia's status is unknown.
* George Conrad is living in Indiana.
* Christina Lydia died in 1865.
* Peter Wilson is living in Rockingham.  (He dies in 1870.)
* Jacob G died in 1863.
* Mary Ann is living in Augusta County, married to John W. Keller.
* Elizabeth's status is unknown, but possibly dead.
* Eliza Virginia is living in Rockingham, married to Robert Evan Cox.

Information related to Nancy's death adds some confusion:
* A "Nancy Koontz" is listed in the U.S. Federal Census Mortality Schedule for Rockingham, and her married status is "married" and not "widowed"<ref>National Archives and Records Administration (NARA); Washington, D.C.; Non-population Census Schedules for Virginia, 1850-1880; Archive Collection: T1132; Archive Roll Number: 10; Census Year: 1870; Census Place: Ashby, Rockingham, Virginia; Page: 390</ref>.  It is uncertain if the marital status in the census can be trusted.   (There is another "Nancy Koontz" that can be found in Rockingham in this timeframe, who was married to Samuel Koontz, but lived well beyond 1870.)
* Jacob cannot be found anywhere in the 1870 census.  
* The 1860 census shows "Sarah Koontz" as Jacob's inferred wife<ref>Year: 1860; Census Place: District 1, Rockingham, Virginia; Roll: M653_1379; Page: 608; Family History Library Film: 805379</ref>.  There is no record of an earlier death for Nancy, or of Jacob re-marrying.  (Daughter Sarah had died in 1859.)

== Sources ==
<references />