== Biography ==
Sarah was born in 1742.

== Research Notes ==
A lawsuit filed in Chancery Court of Augusta<ref>Chancery Records Index, Augusta, Index Number 1821-041, Original case number 109, https://www.lva.virginia.gov/chancery/full_case_detail.asp?CFN=015-1821-041#img</ref> shows "Lewis Keller and Sarah his wife" answered the bill of complaint 23 Sep 1820.  Sarah was one of the devisees in the will of Jacob Swallow, who died in 1819.  The court records show that both Lewis and Sarah were still living in Rockingham in 1820.  Rockingham Land tax<ref>	Land tax lists, 1821-1829, 1826, Solomon's list, page 14, {{FamilySearch Image|3Q9M-CSLD-Y9PD-D}}</ref> shows that Lewis died about 1825 or 1826.

The court records show most of the family remained in Maryland, with the Kellers and John Koontz in Virginia, and Paul and William Koontz in Maryland.  Paul had died by 1820.

Aspects of Jacob Swallow's life and the circumstances of his writing this will allow some skepticism about the sibling relationships the will indicates.  Jacob Swallow's wife, Mary, had filed for divorce only a few days before the will was written.  She and Jacob appear to have been having a dispute about how her father's land would be inherited, and Mary seems to have filed for divorce so that Jacob would not have access to her inheritance, and that the inheritance would ultimately go to her nephew, the only other heir.  Jacob Swallow's will can be read as a counterpoint to Mary's divorce filing.

The parents of Sarah and her siblings, and any relationship they may have with other Koontzes in the Rockingham area, are yet to be determined.

== Sources ==
<references />