== Biography ==

(Alternate surname spellings before 1800:  Counce, Kounce, Counts, Countz, Koonts)

Peter was born about 1765 in Maryland<ref>"United States Census, 1880," database with images, FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:MCR3-TDV : 15 January 2022), Abraham Koontz, Central District, Rockingham, Virginia, United States; citing enumeration district ED 72, sheet , NARA microfilm publication T9 (Washington, D.C.: National Archives and Records Administration, n.d.), FHL microfilm .</ref>.

The birth year is approximated based on the 1810 census<ref>"United States Census, 1810," database with images, FamilySearch (https://familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:XH2Q-82Q : accessed 25 August 2022), Peter Koontz, Keezletown, Rockingham, Virginia, United States; citing p. 135, NARA microfilm publication M252 (Washington D.C.: National Archives and Records Administration, n.d.), roll 67; FHL microfilm 181,427.</ref> "Over 45", the 1830 census<ref>"United States Census, 1830," database with images, FamilySearch (https://familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:XH5N-PKX : 20 February 2021), Peter Koontz, Rockingham, Virginia, United States; citing 233, NARA microfilm publication M19, (Washington D.C.: National Archives and Records Administration, n.d.), roll 199; FHL microfilm 29,678.</ref> "60-69", and the 1840 census<ref>"United States Census, 1840," database with images, FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:XHT2-P92 : 1 October 2021), Peter Kuhns, Keezletown, Rockingham, Virginia, United States; citing p. 131, NARA microfilm publication , (Washington D.C.: National Archives and Records Administration, n.d.), roll ; FHL microfilm.</ref> "70 and under 80".

"Peter Counce Jr" first appeared in the 1790 personal property tax list<ref>Personal property tax lists of Rockingham County, 1782-1863, Personal property tax lists 1782-1796, Virginia. Commissioner of the Revenue (Rockingham County), Salt Lake City, Utah : Filmed by the Genealogical Society of Utah, 1955, image 322</ref> in Rockingham County, Virginia, with his father Peter Counce Sr.  In the same year, the Tenth Legion Tithables list<ref>Tenth legion tithables (Rockingham Division) Rockingham County, Virginia : tithables for 1792, a list of all the white males above 16 years of age in the county and all the slaves above 12 in the county in 1792. Luray, Va.: Strickler, 1930, page 36</ref> lists "Counce, Peter Jr", with "Counce Peter Sr. & Phil" listed in the same district.

His name continued in the Rockingham tax lists until 1793, when "Peter Kunce" appeared in the Augusta, Virginia personal property tax list in 1793<ref>Personal property tax lists of Augusta County, 1782-1851 https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CSQF-W33B-5?i=453&cat=406586</ref>.

He married Elizabeth Ann Jones, daughter of Enos Jones, in Augusta County, Virginia 2 Dec 1793<ref>https://www.wikitree.com/photo/jpg/Koontz-1153-1</ref>

He is absent from the Augusta County personal property tax list in 1795, but appears again in the Rockingham County personal property tax list for that year<ref>Personal property tax lists of Rockingham County, 1782-1863 https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS4F-FS4D-3?i=662&cat=411278</ref>.

He passed away in 1844 in Rockingham County.  There is a difference in the 1844 death year stated in the 17 May 1848 Indenture<ref>Rockingham County, Virginia, [https://www.wikitree.com/genealogy/Koontz-Photos-1153 Indenture (deed) dated 17 May 1848]</ref> and the year the Administrator was appointed by the court 17 Mar 1845<ref>[https://www.rockinghamcountyva.gov/DocumentCenter/View/1856/MINUTE-BOOK-23-1845-1846?bidId= Minute Book 23 1845-1846], Rockingham County Circuit Court, Harrisonburg Virginia, Page 27-28</ref>.  For intestate probates at this time in Rockingham County, a survey of others in this family shows that the Administrator was appointed around 4 weeks after death.  A similar review of court cases showed that a statement about a death year was likely to be off by a year.  This profile shows 1844 because it was the year stated in court, it is presumably the truth, and is preferred over a calculated date.

== Sources ==
<references />