== Biography ==

=== Vital Information ===
* Name:  Moses Koontz
* Birth:  Abt. 1797 (calculated by age at death in the death registry)
* Death:  10 MAR 1854, age 57<ref>"Shenandoah, Virginia, United States records," images, FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3QHN-G3YR-3YN8?view=explore : Oct 20, 2025), image 10 of 38; The Library of Virginia (Richmond, Virginia).  Image Group Number: 107848146</ref>
* Marriage:  Nancy Urt 27 Jun 1820<ref>"Virginia, County Marriage Records, 1771-1989", _FamilySearch_ (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:6D7F-LVJG : Sun Jan 19 01:55:56 UTC 2025), Entry for Moses Koontz and Nancy Urt, 27 Jun 1820.</ref>

=== Children ===
* Elizabeth C.<ref> "Shenandoah, Virginia, United States records," images, FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-C91F-BW7S-C?view=explore : Oct 20, 2025), image 90 of 313; .	Image Group Number: 007747892</ref>, m. Henry Carper 1 Aug 1849
* John<ref>Personal property tax lists 1843-1850, Film # 007856304, 1849 image 533, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS79-2HK9-9?cat=koha%3A695422&i=532&lang=en</ref>.  Because John was first identified in the tax list in 1849, it is possible that he was just 21, and born in 1828.
* William<ref>"Virginia, County Marriage Records, 1771-1989", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:6DQ4-4JXD : Sat Jan 18 22:59:27 UTC 2025), Entry for William Kounty and Mosees Kounty, 14 Jan 1858.</ref>, m. Elizabeth Reynard, daughter of Abraham and Mary Reynard, 14 Jan 1858.  Note that the marriage bond for Abraham and Mary shows her name as Margaret, and she is the daughter of John Urt, the sister of William's mother Nancy Urt, his first cousin.

== Research Notes ==

=== Parents ===
The name of Moses' father has not been found in any record.  Death registry lists only "Eve Koontz" as parent.  

There is a close association with Moses' stepfather, John Newland, who co-signed a Chancery Court bond<ref>Moses Koontz vs George Ruddell https://old.lva.virginia.gov/chancery/case_detail.asp?CFN=171-1822-004, bond dated 9 Oct 1821 https://old.lva.virginia.gov/chancery/full_case_detail.asp?CFN=171-1822-004#img .</ref>, purchasing personal property from Moses so that Moses could pay the bond<ref>Shenandoah County Deed Book BA page 84</ref>, and made some provisions in his will<ref>Shenandoah County Will Book Z, page 180</ref>:
<blockquote>It is my will and desire that my wife son Moses live on the premises with his mother undisturbed until such sale as named in the first item be effected or as long as my wife lives in order to assist her in raising the children</blockquote>

=== Marriage ===
There is some confusion between Nancy (Urt) Koontz (b. Abt. 1801) of Shenandoah County and Nancy (Cline) Koontz (b. Abt. 1804) of Rockingham County.  The U.S. Federal Census Mortality Schedule for 1870<ref>National Archives and Records Administration (NARA); Washington, D.C.; Non-population Census Schedules for Virginia, 1850-1880; Archive Collection: T1132; Archive Roll Number: 10; Census Year: 1870; Census Place: Ashby, Rockingham, Virginia; Page: 390</ref> shows a "Nancy Koontz" who died in Apr 1870 at age 65.  This entry has been applied to Nancy Urt in most family trees in Ancestry, and also asserted by Lowell Koontz from his research.

Nancy Koontz was identified as the wife of Moses Koontz 10 MAR 1854 in his death registry entry, as well as the informant.

The 1860 census<ref>"United States, Census, 1860", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:MHMQ-QX3 : Mon Jul 08 23:26:09 UTC 2024), Entry for Henry Carper and Elizabeth C Carper, 1860.</ref> shows Henry and Elizabeth Carper still living in Edinburg, Shenandoah, Virginia, with 4 children.  William Koontz is listed on the same page with wife Elizabeth (nee Reynard) and two children, and he is likely the son of Moses Koontz.  The Reynards appear to be living nearby.  Nancy Koontz does not appear in Shenandoah in the 1860 census.

Potential death record<ref>https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3QS7-89XF-C5GD?view=index&personArk=%2Fark%3A%2F61903%2F1%3A1%3A6JG3-FMYJ&action=view&cc=4149585&lang=en&groupId=M96J-MMS</ref> transcribed as Nancy Corentz, but could be Nancy Countz

=== Census Records ===
* 1830<ref>"Scott, Virginia, United States records," images, FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:33SQ-GYB3-DZG?view=explore : Nov 1, 2025), image 245 of 808; United States. National Archives and Records Administration.  Image Group Number: 005156040</ref> census shows Moses with 1 male 5-9, 1 male 30-39, 2 females under 5, 1 female 20-29.
* 1840 census<ref>"United States, Census, 1840", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:XHT2-BGG : Sun Jan 19 22:55:16 UTC 2025), Entry for Moses Koontz, 1840.</ref> shows Moses with 2 males 5-9, 1 male 15-19, 1 male 40-49; 1 female under 5, 1 female 10-14, 1 female 30-39.

=== Tax ===
Personal Property Tax records from Shenandoah County, with the number of "White males above 16" in the household:
* 1821<ref>Shenandoah County, Personal property tax lists 1819-1830, Image 164, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS79-2946-P?cat=koha%3A695422&i=163&lang=en</ref> "Moses Kounce 1"
* 1828<ref>https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS79-29Z7-S?cat=koha%3A695422&i=676&lang=en</ref> "Moses Koontz 1"; "John Newland 2"
* 1829<ref>https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS79-29HR-Y?cat=koha%3A695422&i=803&lang=en</ref> "Moses Koontz 1"; 
* 1830<ref>https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS79-29HS-Y?cat=koha%3A695422&i=859&lang=en</ref> "Moses Koontz 1"; "Eve Newland 1"
* 1831<ref>Shenandoah County, Personal property tax lists 1830-1843, Image 145, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS79-BJSW?cat=koha%3A695422&i=144&lang=en</ref> "Moses Kountz 1"; "Eve Newland 1"
* 1832<ref>Shenandoah County, Personal property tax lists 1830-1843, Image 226, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS79-BNG7?cat=koha%3A695422&i=225&lang=en</ref> "Moses Kontz 1"; "Eve Newland [blank]"
* 1833<ref>Shenandoah County, Personal property tax lists 1830-1843, Image 267, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS79-BNGL?cat=koha%3A695422&i=266&lang=en</ref> "Moses Kountz 1"; "Eve Newland [blank]"
* 1834 "Moses Kountz 1"<ref>Shenandoah County, Personal property tax lists 1830-1843, Image 339, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS79-BN8C?cat=koha%3A695422&i=338&lang=en</ref>; "Eve Newland [blank]"<ref>https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS79-BNZC?cat=koha%3A695422&i=344&lang=en</ref>
* 1835 (Moses not listed) "Eve Newland [blank]"<ref>Image 453, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS79-BF2X?cat=koha%3A695422&i=452&lang=en</ref>
* 1836 (Moses not listed) "Eve Newland [blank]"<ref>Image 495, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS79-BFFT?cat=koha%3A695422&i=494&lang=en</ref>
* 1837 (Moses not listed) "Eve Newland 1"<ref>Image 581, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS79-BF95?cat=koha%3A695422&i=580&lang=en</ref>; Note:  William H Koontz first entry<ref>Image 578, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS79-BF9B?cat=koha%3A695422&i=577&lang=en</ref> but unlikely son of Moses.
* 1838 (Moses not listed); "Eve Newland 1"<ref>Image 613, https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/3:1:3Q9M-CS79-BXYZ?cat=koha%3A695422&i=612&lang=en</ref>
* 1839 (Moses not listed); "Eve Newland 1"<ref></ref>

== Sources ==
<references />