== To Do ==

Did Clines or Koontzes use Rader's Lutheran Church?
* [https://www.familysearch.org/search/catalog/226066?availability=Family%20History%20Library Record book of Rader's (Roeders) Lutheran Church. (Timberville, Rockingham County, Virginia)] -- All handwritten

When did William Near b. 1781 die?  1866?
* [https://www.familysearch.org/search/film/008575077?cat=1158987 Rockbridge Register of Deaths]
* [https://www.lva.virginia.gov/public/guides/pptax-locality.asp?localityID=VA249 Rockbridge PP Tax]  (Scanned 1855-1858)
* Rockbridge County, Virginia death register 1853-1870, death certificates 1912-1917 Statement of Responsibility: compiled by Angela M. Ruley Authors: Ruley, Angela M. (Main Author) 975.5852 V2

Was Adam Cline in Philadelphia in 1800?
* [https://www.familysearch.org/search/catalog/177079?availability=Family%20History%20Library Census records of Philadelphia and Lancaster Counties : population schedules, 1800]

Where did Conrad Cline come from?
* [https://lva.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/discovery/favorites?vid=01LVA_INST:01LVA&lang=en&section=items LVA List of Cline books, etc.] login

== Completed 1 Aug 2024 ==
Microfilm:
* Rockbridge Property Tax for William Nair, 1852-1856, reels 727 and 728

Hints of migration:  Cline/Kline/Klein before ~1787 and Koontz/Coontz ~1764-1774
* FamilySearch: [https://www.familysearch.org/search/catalog/77817?availability=Family%20History%20Library Washington County Maryland Deeds]
* FamilySearch: [https://www.familysearch.org/search/catalog/13309?availability=Family%20History%20Library Frederick County Maryland Deeds]
* FamilySearch: [https://www.familysearch.org/search/catalog/results?count=20&placeId=2547&query=%2Bplace%3A%22United%20States%2C%20Maryland%2C%20Washington%22%20%2Bavailability%3AOnline Washington County, Maryland] formed September 6, 1776
* FamilySearch: [https://www.familysearch.org/search/catalog/results?count=20&placeId=189722&query=%2Bplace%3A%22United%20States%2C%20Maryland%2C%20Frederick%22%20%2Bavailability%3AOnline Frederick County, Maryland] formed 1748 from Prince George's County (1696, Province of Maryland)
* Berwick Pennsylvania (York County created on August 19, 1749, from part of Lancaster County, Adams County created on January 22, 1800, from part of York County)
Results:
* Peter Koontz deed in Frederick County, Maryland
* Klines not found in any identifiable way.

FamilySearch: Elkhart Indiana
* Searching for records related to [[../Cline/Cline-7885.wikitext|John B. Cline's]] family after 1837.
** [https://www.familysearch.org/search/film/007856916?cat=455090 General deed indexes, A-Z, 1830-1863]
** [https://www.familysearch.org/search/film/008069436?cat=455090 Deed record, v. 4-6, 1837-1840]
** [https://www.familysearch.org/search/film/008069438?cat=455090 Deed record, v. 6-8, 1840-1844]
# John Cline 3 Jul 1846 10/317, 11/297
# Elias Cline and Samuel T 10/543 10/544
# Samuel T 14/214
# John A Kline 10/388

== Completed 24 Jul 2024 ==

FamilySearch: [https://www.familysearch.org/search/film/007836003?cat=77817 Washington County Maryland 1792 Deed from Mollie Roudenbusch to Jonathan Hager]
* Complete.  Found and downloaded 24 Jul 2024

FamilySearch:  [https://www.familysearch.org/search/film/007575967?cat=39406 Church records, 1771-1944 Hagerstown, Maryland]
* Anything on Marie Raudenbusch/Ruebush and/or Conrad Cline
* Nothing on Maria and Conrad
* Baptism record for Susanna Raudenbusch

Mary Ruebush (1736-1815) and her family in Virginia.
* Location: Archives and Manuscripts Room Manuscripts 24471
* Barcode: 417841
* Scanned 24 Jul 2024

== Archive ==

Old Tenth Legion marriages : marriages in Rockingham County, Virginia, from 1778 to 1816, taken from the marriage bonds
* General Collection
* Available , Closed Stacks Circulating ; F232.R7 S9
Results:
* Mary Roudabush m. Peter Keller 1804.  Father is Jacob
* Ann Roudebush m. Jno Seiger 1796.  Father is Jacob
